In article <2BC0D53B.20378@news.service.uci.edu> tclock@orion.oac.uci.edu (Tim Clock) writes:>Is it possible to track down "zuma" and determine who/what/where "seradr">is?Done. But did it change the fact that during the period of 1914 to 1920,the Armenian Government ordered, incited, assisted and participatedin the genocide of 2.5 million Muslim people because of race, religionand national origin? By the way, you still haven't corrected yourself.During World War II Armenians were carried away with the German might andcringing and fawning over the Nazis. In that zeal, the Armenian publicationin Germany, Hairenik, carried statements as follows:[1]"Sometimes it is difficult to eradicate these poisonous elements (the Jews)when they have struck deep root like a chronic disease, and when itbecomes necessary for a people (the Nazis) to eradicate them in an uncommonmethod, these attempts are regarded as revolutionary. During the surgicaloperation, the flow of blood is a natural thing."Now for a brief view of the Armenian genocide of the Muslims and Jews -extracts from a letter dated December 11, 1983, published in the SanFrancisco Chronicle, as an answer to a letter that had been publishedin the same journal under the signature of one B. Amarian."...We have first hand information and evidence of Armenian atrocitiesagainst our people (Jews)...Members of our family witnessed themurder of 148 members of our family near Erzurum, Turkey, by Armenianneighbors, bent on destroying anything and anybody remotely Jewishand/or Muslim. Armenians should look to their own history and seethe havoc they and their ancestors perpetrated upon their neighbors...Armenians were in league with Hitler in the last war, on his premiseto grant them self government if, in return, the Armenians wouldhelp exterminate Jews...Armenians were also hearty proponents ofthe anti-Semitic acts in league with the Russian Communists. Mr. Amarian!I don't need your bias."Signed Elihu Ben Levi, Vacaville, California.[1] James G. Mandalian, 'Dro, Drastamat Kanayan,' in the 'ArmenianReview,' a Quarterly by the Hairenik Association, Inc., Summer:June 1957, Vol. X, No. 2-38.Serdar Argic'We closed the roads and mountain passes thatmight serve as ways of escape for the Turksand then proceeded in the work of extermination.'(Ohanus Appressian - 1919)'In Soviet Armenia today there no longer existsa single Turkish soul.' (Sahak Melkonian - 1920)