In article <C4xCu3.401@polaris.async.vt.edu> jfurr@polaris.async.vt.edu (Joel Furr) writes:>Do it.  Depew has shown himself to be unrepentant (though embarrassed) and>still possessed of the same fucked-up hubris-laden self-righteousness thatThe theory is that the hollering kills the spirit of the criminal/NaziArmenians of the ASALA/SDPA/ARF Terrorism and Revisionism Triangle.Now, try dealing with the rest of what I wrote.What is more, the activities of the Armenian Government seem to have beenefforts aimed at eradicating a race (the Turks) or aimed at carrying out aone-sided feud, instead of being a struggle for liberation. From the outset,the efforts of the Armenian revolutionaries within the Ottoman borders tookthe form of terrorist and destructive actions aimed at mass murder, crueltyand genocide, so that no other interpretation of them is possible. Armenianactivities started during the reign of Abdulhamid II as individual acts ofterror, and then developed into assassinations and surprise attacks. The elementof brute force in these activities increased steadily, culminating in massrebellions and widespread fighting during the First World War. Furthermore,when the Ottoman army withdrew from Eastern Anatolia after the 1915 Sarikamisdefeat, Armenian revolutionaries initiated a series of cruelties in this area.Although the Russians occupied Eastern Anatolia as an enemy, nevertheless theywere constrained by the rules of war. However, when they returned to theircountry in 1917 after the Revolution, Armenian revolutionaries were uncheckedin this area for about a year until the Ottoman forces returned to Erzurumin 1918. During this period, Armenian revolutionaries executed massacres onthe local people which is recorded in historical documents.[1]For example, let us look at a report dated 21 March 1918 which the Commanderof the Third Army submitted when he entered Erzurum and Erzincan:"They were completely and systematically destroyed and burned downby Armenians, even the trees were cut down, and they are like abuilding entirely consumed by fire in every sense of the word."As for the people who had been living in Erzurum and Erzincan:"Those who were capable of fighting were taken away at the very beginningwith the excuse of forced labor in road construction, they were takenin the direction of Sarikamis and annihilated. When the Russian armywithdrew, a part of the remaining people was destroyed in Armenianmassacres and cruelties: they were thrown into wells, they were lockedin houses and burned down, they were killed with bayonets and swords, in placesselected as butchering spots, their bellies were torn open, their lungswere pulled out, and girls and women were hanged by their hair afterbeing subjected to every conceivable abominable act. A very small partof the people who were spared these abominations far worse than thecruelty of the inquisition resembled living dead and were sufferingfrom temporary insanity because of the dire poverty they had livedin and because of the frightful experiences they had been subjected to.Including women and children, such persons discovered so far do notexceed one thousand five hundred in Erzincan and thirty thousand inErzurum. All the fields in Erzincan and Erzurum are untilled, everythingthat the people had has been taken away from them, and we found themin a destitute situation. At the present time, the people are subsistingon some food they obtained, impelled by starvation, from Russian storagesleft behind after their occupation of this area."[2]Foreign observers who witnessed the events, including Russian Officerswho did not desert their lines, submitted detailed reports proving thegenocide to Ottoman commanders who received them as prisoners of war.What is most important is that they stated in their reports 'themassacres did not happen by chance but were planned.'[3]At the end of the war, the German author Dr. Weiss, his Austrian colleagueDr. Stein and his Turkish colleague Mr. Ahmet Vefik visited Trabzon, Kars,Erzurum and Batum between April 17th and May 20th 1918 to record thecruelties. Their writings not only show the scope of Armenian activities,but also reveal their goal and true nature.[4][1] (The Ottoman State, the Ministry of War), "Islam Ahalinin Ducar OlduklariMezalim Hakkinda Vesaike Mustenid Malumat," (Istanbul, 1918). The Frenchversion: "Documents Relatifs aux Atrocites Commises par les Armeniens surla Population Musulmane," (Istanbul, 1919). In the Latin script: H. K.Turkozu, ed., "Osmanli ve Sovyet Belgeleriyle Ermeni Mezalimi," (Ankara,1982). In addition: Z. Basar, ed., "Ermenilerden Gorduklerimiz," (Ankara,1974) and, edited by the same author, "Ermeniler Hakkinda Makaleler -Derlemeler," (Ankara, 1978). "Askeri Tarih Belgeleri ...," Vol. 32, 83(December 1983), document numbered 1881.[2] "Askeri Tarih Belgeleri ....," Vol. 31, 81 (December 1982), documentnumbered 1869.[3] From Twerdo-Khlebof's report dated 29 April 1918; quoted in Ermeniler ...,Vol. 2, p. 275.[4] A. R. (Altinay), "Iki Komite - Iki Kital," (Istanbul, 1919), and, "KafkasYollarinda Hatiralar ve Tahassusler" (Istanbul, 1919).Serdar Argic'We closed the roads and mountain passes thatmight serve as ways of escape for the Turksand then proceeded in the work of extermination.'(Ohanus Appressian - 1919)'In Soviet Armenia today there no longer existsa single Turkish soul.' (Sahak Melkonian - 1920)