In article <CMM.0.90.2.734911642.thomasp@surt.ifi.uio.no> Thomas Parsli <thomasp@ifi.uio.no> writes:>Overall Crime rate:>It fell....just like that...Two questions:  When was this, and do you have the relevantnumbers.  (Please note, this is *not* in any way an indication I don'tbelieve you or that you're not correct, but when the drop occured isrelevant.)>Acquiring weapons in Norway:>You can buy (almost) all kinds of weapons in Norway, BUT you must have a>permit, and a good reason to get the permit....>If I would like to have a handgun, i would have to get an gun-licence from>the police and to be a member of a gun-club.The primary objection (beyond ones based on the ideal ofRKBA that it is simply not something the government should do) isthat it makes guns a play-thing and tool of the rich and connected.It discriminates against the poor.Is self-defense considered appropriate, and if so, under whatconditions?  (Are you allowed, for instance to get a gun for protectionif you're going to be carrying a very large sum of money on a regularbasis or have been threatened.)>The police would check my criminal records for any SERIOUS crimes and/or>records of SERIOUS mental diseases.This has been suggested in the U.S., and generally supported amonggun owners.  What many object to is that many, if not most, proposalscontain a sort of "gotcha" clause which allows an arbitrary denial, evenif you qualify in every way.>Now, if a got my licence, I would have to be an active member of the gun>-club for 6 months BEFORE I could collect my gun.>It's a little like getting a drivers licence isn't it ???>You have to prove that you CAN drive before you are allowed to...At this point, it should be pointed out that in generala driver's licence in the U.S. is for the most part nothing like itsEuropean counterpart.  I understand getting one is far more difficultthere than here.  In the U.S. it's a joke.But my usual objection is that you're discussing two differentthings.  For instance, in the U.S. a driver's license is a permitto operate a motor vehicle on a public road.  It is not necessaryto own one, or to operate it on private property.  That is, theability to require driving permits is generally considered to arisefrom the government's legitimate power to enact reasonable regulationsfor behavior on public lands.  A permit to own an automobile, for instance,which is far closer an analogy, would be a much harder thing to getpast legally, since it wouldn't be based on making regulations on publicproperty, but in restricting activity on private property.>Use of guns in crimes (in Norway):>Some crimes are commited with guns that have been in the owners 'arms'>for a long time, but these are rather the exeption.>Most criminals accuire guns to use them in crimes, and mostly short>time befor the crime.>>Use of knives:>It IS allowed to cary knifes in public, but not in your belt or 'open'.>You (Americans) think it's ok to have a gun, but not to carry it open>in public -rigth ??This varies *widely*.  (One thing I think Europeans havea difficult time with is that the U.S. has fifty unique jurisdictions,where the laws from one state to another can be as radically differentas from one country in Europe to another).Some places allow open carry of both guns and knives.  Some allowconcealed.  Some prohibit both, or allow one or the other.  And it canbe either a state or local restriciton.>Individual vs masses:>Yes the individual is more important than the masses, but only to some>extent....>Your criminal laws are to protect the individuals who makes the masses ??>What happens when the rigths of some individuals affects the rights of>all the others ??The question must be asked:  Is the right of *this* individualaffecting the rights of this *other* individual.  What we usuallyget is that the rights of this *group* (meaning some individuals withinthis group, here defined as "people who own guns,") are adversely affectingthe rights of some other group.If for instance, "Bob" were using his gun to attack "Steve," you'dhave a point.  But essentially what we're discussing is that becuasesome person who qualifies as a member of the group "people who ownguns" then some third person, perhaps in another *time zone* is toldthat their being a member of that group is taking away somebody else'srights.  It's like trying to punish all newspapers for the libel commitedby one.>The issue:>I believe the issue is GUNS, and gun-legislation.The issue is crime, violence, and murder.  The question is towhat extent guns and gun legislation impact those.>We shouldn't mix weapons and items that can serve as one....>IF i lived in Amerika I would probably have a gun to defend myselfe in HOME.>But should it have to be like that ??Of course not.  It would be nice if we didn't have to fear thatother people might get it into their twisted little minds to hurt us.But currently we don't have that option.  Nor do I expect we will.>Do you think it's wise to sell guns like candy (some states do...) ??No state does.  In any case, there's a limit to which the statemay enforce it's "wisdom" on me.  Freedom in general is an unwiseconcept.  If you pre-emptively restrict everything which might be"unwise" then freedom becomes a meaningless concept.>If you believe it's smart/neccacery to have drivers-licence WHY do you think>it should be free to buy guns ??I'll raise my hand against driver's licenses.  As currentlyimplemented they're a waste of time and little more than revanuegeneration for the State and ignored by a startling number ofdrivers.  It does not guarantee a level of skill any higher than isnecessary to get your car on the road and get yourself or somebodyelse killed, or a knowledge of traffic laws beyond what any ten yearold will have picked up riding around in his parents car.But, as I mentioned, they're two different things.------------------------------------------------------------------------David Veal Univ. of Tenn. Div. of Cont. Education Info. Services GroupPA146008@utkvm1.utk.edu - "I still remember the way you laughed, the dayyour pushed me down the elevator shaft;  I'm beginning to think you don'tlove me anymore." - "Weird Al"