Greetings,Specious reasoning alert!  Sorry folks, I don't like gun controltoo much, but this is just too crazy.1)  The main gun control law is similar to (or even BASED ON) aGerman gun control law.2)  Germany was Controlled With Evil Nazi's at the time.3)  Nazi's are bad.Therefore gun control is bad!  (If this seems reasonable to you,try reading it as GunControlIsANaziPlot!  That's pretty much what it'ssaying.)Look, let's try to beat gun control with reason and sense, not bytrying to appeal to emotions, and threatening conspiracies.  DenounceGCA '68 as wrong because it's WRONG, not because it's based off of alaw from someone else's government.As for the 'Lots Of Brave Men Died Fighting Nazi's, So Their LawsHave No Place On Our Books!'  Well, lots of brave men died fightingEngland.  Wanna bet we've got lots of English laws on our books?  Oh,but they're our ALLIES now, so everything's hunky-dory.  I'm *VERY*sure that the GCA is not the only law that we have on the books whichis similar, or even based on, a law on the german books.  HOWEVER,that does not give invalidation in and of itself.WE, THE PEOPLE, must state that we find the law unappealing andcontrary to our freedom.  We must use logic, and reason, and compellingarguments.  To use emotion, and appeal to fear is to lower yourselvesto the level of your enemies.A side issue...  When talking about the Amendments, it bothersme to see people acting as if they empower them, but require noresponsibility from them.  Free speech also assumes restraint, wellarmed militia expects well TRAINED militia, the right to vote expectsthe citizen to try to become educated enough to make a reasonabledecision.  You are not granted these rights without any responsibilityto the society that offers them.  You have a responsibility in return,and it's to do more than bitch.--  Morgan Schweers--Hacker, Furry, SFFan, gamer, writer, MUDder, climber.  24 hours isn't enough!mrs@netcom.com   | Finger mrs@netcom.com or mrs@mcafee.com for my PGP 2.1 key!|New chrome grass! \ B1 S4 a b g j++! k l? p r- s t+ u v- w+ x y- z, approx.__/Low-level D&D monsters practicing war games @ night.  Orc-Kestrel manoeuvers...