Since electrical wiring questions do turn up from time to time onsci.electronics (and the answers aren't always apparent, even to those skilledin electronics), I am hijacking the following FAQ and posting a copy here.I've asked the writers to cross-post to sci.electronics in the future.--- jeh@cmkrnl.comX-NEWS: cmkrnl news.answers: 6685Newsgroups: misc.consumers.house,rec.woodworking,news.answers,misc.answers,rec.answersSubject: Electrical Wiring FAQMessage-ID: <wirefaq_733900891@ecicrl>From: clewis@ferret.ocunix.on.ca (Chris Lewis)Date: 4 Apr 93 05:21:49 GMTReply-To: wirefaq@ferret.ocunix.on.ca (Wiring FAQ commentary reception)Followup-To: posterExpires: 2 May 93 05:21:31 GMTOrganization: Elegant Communications Inc., Ottawa, CanadaSummary: A series of questions and answers about house wiringApproved: news-answers-request@mit.eduSupersedes: <wirefaq_732691289@ecicrl>Archive-name: electrical-wiringLast-modified: Sun Feb 21 16:56:10 EST 1993Frequently Asked Questions on Electrical WiringSteven Bellovin (smb@ulysses.att.com)Chris Lewis (clewis@ferret.ocunix.on.ca)Comments to (automatic if you reply to this article):wirefaq@ferret.ocunix.on.caThis FAQ is formatted as a digest.  Most news readers canskip from one question to the next by pressing ^G.Answers to many other topics related to houses can be obtained fromthe misc.consumers.house archive; send an empty piece of mail tohouse-archive@dg-rtp.dg.com for information.Changes to previous issue marked with "|" in left column.  Watchparticularly for "NEW" in the Questions list for new or substantivelychanged answers.Note that this is now a registered FAQ - cross-posted to news.answersand should appear in the FAQ list of lists.Subject: Questions answered in this FAQIntroduction/DisclaimersWhat is the NEC?  Where can I get a copy?What is the CEC?  Where can I get a copy?Can I do my own wiring?  Extra pointers?What do I need in the way of tools?What is UL listing?What is CSA approval?Are there any cheaper, easier to read books on wiring?Inspections how and what?  Why should I get my wiring inspected?My house doesn't meet some of these rules and regulations.A word on voltages: 110/115/117/120/125/220/240What does an electrical service look like?What is a circuit?"grounding" versus "grounded" versus "neutral".What does a fuse or breaker do?  What are the differences?Breakers?  Can't I use fuses?What size wire should I use?Where do these numbers come from?What does "14-2" mean?What is a "wirenut"/"marrette"/"marr connector".  How are they used?What is a GFI/GFCI?Where should GFCIs be used?Where shouldn't I use a GFCI?What is the difference between a GFCI outlet and a GFCI breaker?What's the purpose of the ground prong on an outlet, then?Why is one prong wider than the other?  PolarizationWhat kind of outlets do I need in a kitchen?Where must outlets and switches be in bathrooms?What is Romex/NM/NMD?  What is BX?  When should I use each?Should I use plastic or metal boxes?Junction box positioning?Can I install a replacement fixture?What does it mean when the lights brighten when a motor starts?What is 3 phase power?  Should I use it?  Can I get it in my house?Is it better to run motors at 110 or 220?What is this nonsense about 3HP on 110V 15A circuits?How do I convert two prong receptacles to three prong?Are you sure about GFCIs and ungrounded outlets?Should the test button work?How should I wire my shop?Underground wiringAluminum wiringI'm buying a house!  What should I do?What is this weird stuff?  Old style wiringWhere do I buy stuff?Subject: Introduction/DisclaimersAlthough we've done a fair bit of wiring, we are notelectricians, and we cannot be responsible for what you do.  Ifyou're at all uncertain about what is correct or safe, *don'tdo it*.  Contact someone qualified -- a licensed electrician,or your local electrical inspector.  Electricity is no joke;mistakes can result in shocks, fires, or electrocution.Furthermore, our discussion is based on the U.S. NationalElectrical Code (NEC) and the Canadian Electrical code (CEC).To the best of our abilities, we have confirmed every detailwith the electrical code, but we don't quote sectionssimply to keep this thing readable.  If you think we're wrong,we invite you to correct us, but please - quote references!The NEC and the CEC do not, in and of themselves, have theforce of law.  Many municipalities adopt it en toto.  Others,however, do not.  Check your with your local buildingdepartment (and <provincial> Hydro Inspection Offices inCanada) to find out what applies in your area.  Also,your local electrical utility may also have special requirementsfor electrical service installation.  Bear in mind, too, thatwe say here applies primarily to ordinary single-familyresidences.  Multi-family dwellings, mobile homes, commercialestablishments, etc., are sometimes governed by differentrules.Also note that, contrary to popular belief in the U.S. (and insome parts of Canada), Canada is not a wholly-owned subsidiaryof the U.S.  Consequently, the NEC does not apply in Canada.Lots of things are the same, including voltages, linefrequencies, and the laws of physics.  But there are a numberof crucial differences in the regulations.  Where we can, we'venoted them, flagging the relevant passages with ``NEC'' or``CEC''.Remember that the CEC and NEC are minimal standards.  It is oftensmart to go beyond their minimal requirements.Subject: What is the NEC?  Where can I get a copy?The NEC is a model electrical code devised and published by theNational Fire Protection Association, an insurance industry group.It's revised every three years.  The 1993 version has been released.You can buy a copy at a decent bookstore, or by calling them directlyat 800-344-3555.  The code exists in several versions.  There's thefull text, which is fairly incomprehensible.  There's an abridgededition, which has only the sections likely to apply to most houses.And there's the NEC Handbook, which contains the ``authorizedcommentary'' on the code, as well as the full text.  That's therecommended version.  Unfortunately, there's no handbook forthe abridged edition.  And the full handbook is expensive --US$65 plus shipping and handling.Subject: What is the CEC?  Where can I get a copy?The Canadian Standards Association is an organization made upof various government agencies, power utilities, insurancecompanies, electrical manufacturers and other organizations.The CSA publishes CSA Standard C22.1 which is updated every twoor three years.  Each province adopts, with some amendments,this standard and publishes a province-specific code book.Since each province publishes its own slightly modifiedstandard, it would be somewhat confusing to obtain the CSAstandard itself.  In this FAQ, "CEC" really means theappropriate provincial standard.  In particular, this FAQ isderived from the Ontario Hydro Electrical Safety Code, 20thedition (1990).  Which is in turn based on CSA C22.1-1990 (16thedition).  While differences exist between the provinces, anattempt has been made to avoid specific-to-Ontario detail.The appropriate provincial code can be obtained from electricalinspection offices of your provincial power authority.  InOntario, it's Ontario Hydro.  The Ontario Hydro book isn'toverly fat.  It's about C$25, and includes mailed updates.  Ihear that these standards are somewhat easier to read than theequivalent NEC publications.Don't bother asking in Quebec - DIY wiring is banned throughoutthe province.Subject: Can I do my own wiring?  Extra pointers?In most places, homeowners are allowed to do their own wiring.In some, they're not.  Check with your local electricalinspector.  Most places won't permit you to do wiring on other'shomes for money without a license.  Nor are you permitted to dowiring in "commercial" buildings.  Multiple dwellings (eg: duplexes)are usually considered "semi-commercial" or "commercial".  However,many jurisdictions will permit you to work on semi-commercialwiring if you're supervised by a licensed electrician - if you canfind one willing to supervise.If you do your own wiring, an important point:Do it NEAT and WELL!  What you really want to aim for is a betterjob than an electrician will do.  After all, it's your own home,and it's you or your family that might get killed if you makea mistake.  An electrician has time pressures, has the skillsand knows the tricks of the trade to do a fast, safe job.In this FAQ we've consciously given a few recommendations thatare in excess of code, because we feel that it's reasonable,and will impress the inspector.The inspector will know that you're an amateur.  You have toearn his trust.  The best way of doing this is to spend yourtime doing as neat a job as possible.  Don't cut corners.Exceed specifications.  Otherwise, the inspector may get extremelypicky and fault you on the slightest transgressions.Don't try to hide anything from the inspector.Use the proper tools.  Ie: don't use a bread knife to stripwires, or twist wires with your fingers.  The inspectorwon't like it, and the results won't be that safe.  And ittakes longer.  And you're more likely to stick a hunk of12ga wire through your hand that way.Don't handle house wire when it's very cold (eg: below -10Cor 16F).  Thermoplastic house wire, particularly older typesbecome very brittle.Subject: What do I need in the way of tools?First, there's the obvious -- a hammer, a drill, a fewscrewdrivers, both straight and Phillips-head.  If you'relucky enough to live in Canada (or find a source of CSA-approveddevices) you need Robertson ("square recess") screwdrivers(#1 and #2) instead of phillips.For drilling a few holes, a 3/4" or 1" spade bit and 1/4" or3/8" electric drill will do.  If you're doing a lot, orare working with elderly lumber, we recommend a 1/2" drill(right-angle drills are wonderful.  Can be rented) and3/4" or 1" screw-point auger drill bits.  These bits pullyou through, so they're much faster and less fatiguing, evenin 90 year old hardwood timbers.Screw-driver bits are useful for drills, expecially if youinstall your electrical boxes using screws (drywall screwswork well).For stripping wire, use a real wire stripper, not a knife orordinary wire cutters.  Don't buy the $3 K-mart "combo stripper,crimper and bottle opener" types.  You should expect to pay$15 to $20 for a good "plier-type" pair.  It will have sizedstripping holes, and won't nick or grab the wire - it shouldbe easy to strip wire with it.  One model has a small hole in theblade for forming exact wire loops for screw terminals.  Thereare fancier types (autostrip/cut), but they generally aren'tnecessary, and pros usually don't use them.A pair of diagonal side cutter pliers are useful for clipping endsin constricted places.  Don't use these for stripping wire.You will need linesman pliers for twisting wires for wire nuts.You should have a pair of needle-nose pliers for fiddlinginside boxes and closing loops, but it's better to form wireloops with a "loop former hole" on your wire stripper - moreaccurate.If you're using non-metallic cable, get a cable stripper forremoving the sheath.  Or, do what some pros do, they nick theend of the sheath, grab the ground wire with a pair of pliers,and simply rip the sheath back using the ground wire as a"zipper", and cut the sheath off.  You shouldn't try to stripthe sheath with a knife point, because it's too easy toslash the insulation on the conductors.  Apparently Stanleyutility knives fitted with linoleum cutters (hooked blades)can be used to strip sheath, but there is still the possibilitythat you'll gouge the conductors.For any substantial amount of work with armored cable, it's wellworth your while to invest in a rotary cable splitter (~US$ 18).Hack saws are tricky to use without cutting into the wireor the insulation.Three-prong outlet testers are a quick check for properly-wiredoutlets.  About $6.  Multimeters tell you more, but are a lot moreexpensive, and probably not worth it for most people.  A simplevoltage sensor, which can detect potential through an insulatedwire not supplying any devices, is extremely helpful; they costabout US$ 10 at Radio Shack.You should have a voltage detector - to check that the wires aredead before doing work on them.  Neon-bulb version are cheap ($2-3)and work well.  If you get more serious, a "audible alarm" type isgood for tracing circuits without a helper.  (Though I've been knownto lock the drill on, and hit breakers until the scream stops ;-)For running wires through existing walls, you need fish tape.Often, two tapes are needed, though sometimes, a bent hanger ora length of thin chain will suffice.  Fish tapes can be rented.Electrical tape.  Lots of it ;-)  Seriously, a good and competentwiring job will need very little tape.  The tape is useful forwrapping dicy insulation in repair work.  Another use is to wraparound the body of outlets and switches to cover the terminationscrews - I don't do this, but drywall contractors prefer it (toprevent explosions when the drywall knife collides with a live outletthat has no cover plate).Subject: What is UL listing?The UL stands for "Underwriters Laboratory".  It used to bean Insurance Industry organization, but now it is independentand non-profit.  It tests electrical components and equipmentfor potential hazards.  When something is UL-listed, that meansthat the UL has tested the device, and it meets their requirementsfor safety - ie: fire or shock hazard.  It doesn't necessarilymean that the device actually does what it's supposed to, justthat it probably won't kill you.The UL does not have power of law in the U.S. -- you arepermitted to buy and install non-UL-listed devices.  However,insurance policies sometimes have clauses in them that willlimit their liability in case of a claim made in response tothe failure of a non-UL-listed device.  Furthermore, inmany situations the NEC will require that a wiring componentused for a specific purpose is UL-listed for that purpose.Indirectly, this means that certain parts of your wiringmust be UL-listed before an inspector will approve it and/oroccupancy permits issued.Subject: What is CSA approval?Every electrical device or component must be certified by theCanadian Standards Association before it can be sold inCanada.  Implicit in this is that all wiring must be donewith CSA-approved materials.  They perform testing similar tothe UL (a bit more stringent), except that CSA approval isrequired by law.Again, like the UL, if a fire was caused by non-CSA-approvedequipment, your insurance company may not have to pay theclaim.In Canada, there is a branch organization of the UL, called ULC(UL of Canada).  ULC does not have power of law, and seems tobe more a liason group between the CSA and insurancecompanies.Subject: Are there any cheaper, easier to read books on wiring?USA: The following three books were suggested by our readersResidential Wiringby Jeff Markell,Craftsman Books,Carlsbad CA for $18.25. ISBN 0-934041-19-9.Practical Electrical WiringResidential, Farm and Industrial,  Based on the NationalElectrical Code    ANSI/NFPA 70Herbert P. Richter and W. Creighton SchwanMcGraw-Hill Book Co.Wiring SimplifiedH. P. Richter and W. C. SchwanPark Publishing Co.Try to make sure that the book is based on the latest NECrevision.  Which is currently 1990.Canada: P.S. Knight authors and publishes a book called"Electrical Code Simplified".  There appears to be a versionpublished specific to each province, and is very tied into theappropriate provincial code.  It focuses on residential wiring,and is indispensible for Canadian DIY'ers.  It is better to getthis book than the CEC unless you do a lot of wiring (or answerquestions on the net ;-).It is updated each time the provincial codes are.  This book isavailable at all DIY and hardware stores for less than C$10.Subject: Inspections how and what?  Why should I get my wiring inspected?Most jurisdictions require that you obtain a permit andinspections of any wiring that is done.  Amongst other moremundane bureaucratic reasons (like insurance companies notliking to have to pay claims), a permit and inspectionsprovides some assurance that you, your family, your neighborsor subsequent owners of your home don't get killed or losetheir homes one night due to a sloppy wiring job.Most jurisdictions have the power to order you to vacate yourhome, or order you to tear out any wiring done without apermit.  California, for instance, is particularly nasty aboutthis.If fire starts in your home, and un-inspected wiring is atfault, insurance companies will often refuse to pay the damageclaims.In general, the process goes like this:- you apply to your local inspections office or buildingdepartment for a permit.  You should have a sketch ordetailed drawing of what you plan on doing.  This isa good time to ask questions on any things you're notsure of.  If you're doing major work, they may imposespecial conditions on you, require loadingcalculations and ask other questions.  At this pointthey will tell you which inspections you will need.- If you're installing a main panel, you will need tohave the panel and service connections inspectedbefore your power utility will provide a connection.This is sometimes done by the local power authorityrather than the usual inspectors.- After installing the boxes and wiring, but beforethe insulation/walls go up, you will need a"rough-in" inspection.- After the walls are up, and the wiring is complete,you will need a "final inspection".Subject: My house doesn't meet some of these rules and regulations.Do I have to upgrade?In general, there is no requirement to upgrade older dwellings,though there are some exceptions (ie: smoke detectors in somecases).  However, any new work must be done according to thelatest electrical code.  Also, if you do ``major'' work, youmay be required to upgrade certain existing portions or allof your system.  Check with your local electrical inspector.Subject: A word on voltages: 110/115/117/120/125/220/240One thing where things might get a bit confusing is thedifferent numbers people bandy about for the voltage ofa circuit.  One person might talk about 110V, another 117Vor another 120V.  These are all, in fact, exactly the samething...  In North America the utility companies are requiredto supply a split-phase 240 volt (+-5%) feed to your house.This works out as two 120V +- 5% legs.  Additionally, since thereare resistive voltage drops in the house wiring, it's notunreasonable to find 120V has dropped to 110V or 240V has droppedto 220V by the time the power reaches a wall outlet.  Especiallyat the end of an extension cord or long circuit run.  For a numberof reasons, some historical, some simple personal orneryness,different people choose call them by slightly different numbers.This FAQ has chosen to be consistent with calling them "110V" and"220V", except when actually saying what the measured voltage willbe.  Confusing?  A bit.  Just ignore it.One thing that might make this a little more understandableis that the nameplates on equipment ofen show the lower (ie: 110Vinstead of 120V) value.  What this implies is that the deviceis designed to operate properly when the voltage drops thatlow.208V is *not* the same as 240V.  208V is the voltage betweenphases of a 3-phase "Y" circuit that is 120V from neutral to anyhot.   480V is the voltage between phases of a 3-phase "Y"circuit that's 277V from hot to neutral.In keeping with 110V versus 120V strangeness, motors intendedto run on 480V three phase are often labelled as 440V...Subject: What does an electrical service look like?There are logically four wires involved with supplying themain panel with power.  Three of them will come from the utilitypole, and a fourth (bare) wire comes from elsewhere.The bare wire is connected to one or more long metal bars poundedinto the ground, or to a wire buried in the foundation, or sometimesto the water supply pipe (has to be metal, continuous to wherethe main water pipe entering the house.  Watch out for galvanicaction conductivity "breaks" (often between copper and iron pipe)).This is the "grounding conductor".  It is there to make sure thatthe third prong on your outlets is connected to ground.  This wirenormally carries no current.One of the other wires will be white (or black with white oryellow stripes, or sometimes simply black).  It is the neutral wire.It is connected to the "centre tap" (CEC; "center tap" in theNEC) of the distribution transformer supplying the power.  Itis connected to the grounding conductor in only one place (ofteninside the panel).  The neutral and ground should not be connectedanywhere else.  Otherwise, weird and/or dangerous things may happen.Furthermore, there should only be one grounding system ina home.  Some codes require more than one grounding electrode.These will be connected together, or connected to the neutralat a common point - still one grounding system.  Adding additionalgrounding electrodes connected to other portions of the housewiring is unsafe and contrary to code.If you add a subpanel, the ground and neutral are usuallybrought as separate conductors from the main panel, and arenot connected together in the subpanel (ie: still only oneneutral-ground connection).  However, in some situations(certain categories of separate buildings) you actually dohave to provide a second grounding electrode - consult yourinspector.The other two wires will usually be black, and are the "hot"wires.  They are attached to the distribution transformer aswell.The two black wires are 180 degrees out of phase with eachother.  This means if you connect something to both hot wires,the voltage will be 220 volts.  If you connect something to thewhite and either of the two blacks you will get 110V.Some panels seem to only have three wires coming into them.This is either because the neutral and ground are connectedtogether at a different point (eg: the meter or pole) and onewire is doing dual-duty as both neutral and ground, or in somerare occasions, the service has only one hot wire (110V onlyservice).Subject: What is a circuit?Inside the panel, connections are made to the incoming wires.These connections are then used to supply power to selectedportions of the home.  There are three different combinations:1) one hot, one neutral, and ground: 110V circuit.2) two hots, no neutral, and ground: 220V circuit.3) two hots, neutral, and ground: 220V circuit + neutral,and/or two 110V circuits with a common neutral.(1) is used for most circuits supplying receptacles andlighting within your house.  (3) is usually used for supplyingpower to major appliances such as stoves, and dryers - theyoften have need for both 220V and 110V, or for bringing severalcircuits from the panel box to a distribution point.  (2) isusually for special 220V motor circuits, electric heaters, orair conditioners.[Note: In the US, the NEC frequently permits a circuit similarto (2) be used for stoves and dryers - namely, that thereare two hot wires, and a wire that does dual duty as neutraland ground, and is connected to the frame as well as providingthe neutral for 110V purposes - three prong plugs insteadof four (*only* for stoves/dryers connected to the main panel.When connected to most sub-panels, 4 prong plugs and receptaclesare required).  In our not-so-humble opinion this is crazy, butthe NFPA claims that this practice was re-evaluated for the 1992 NEC,and found to be safe.  Check your local codes, or inquire as tolocal practice -- there are restrictions on when this ispermissible.](1) is usually wired with three conductor wire: black for hot,white for neutral, and bare for grounding.(2) and (3) have one hot wire coloured red, the other black, abare wire for grounding, and in (3) a white wire for neutral.You will sometimes see (2) wired with just a black, white and groundwire.  Since the white is "hot" in this case, both the NEC and CECrequires that the white wire be "permanently marked" at the endsto indicate that it is a live wire.  Usually done with paint, nailpolish or sometimes electrical tape.Each circuit is attached to the main wires coming into thepanel through a circuit breaker or fuse.There are, in a few locales, circuits that look like (1), (2)or (3) except that they have two bare ground wires.  Some placesrequire this for hot tubs and the like (one ground is "frame ground",the other attaches to the motor).  This may or may not be analternative to GFCI protection.Subject: "grounding" versus "grounded" versus "neutral".According to the terminology in the CEC and NEC, the"grounding" conductor is for the safety ground, i.e., the greenor bare wire.  The word "neutral" is reserved for the white whenyou have a circuit with more than one "hot" wire.  Since the whitewire is connected to neutral and the grounding conductor inside thepanel, the proper term is "grounded conductor".  However, thepotential confusion between "grounded conductor" and "groundingconductor" can lead to potentially lethal mistakes - you shouldnever use the bare wire as a "grounded conductor" or white wireas the "grounding conductor", even though they are connectedtogether in the panel.[But not in subpanels - subpanels are fed neutral and groundseparately from the main panel.  Usually.]In the trade, and in common usage, the word "neutral" is usedfor "grounded conductor".  This FAQ uses "neutral" simply toavoid potential confusion.  We recommend that you use "neutral"too.  Thus the white wire is always (except in some lightswitch applications) neutral.  Not ground.Subject: What does a fuse or breaker do?  What are the differences?Fuses and circuit breakers are designed to interrupt the powerto a circuit when the current flow exceeds safe levels.  Forexample, if your toaster shorts out, a fuse or breaker should"trip", protecting the wiring in the walls from melting.  Assuch, fuses and breakers are primarily intended to protect thewiring -- UL or CSA approval supposedly indicates that theequipment itself won't cause a fire.Fuses contain a narrow strip of metal which is designed to melt(safely) when the current exceeds the rated value, therebyinterrupting the power to the circuit.  Fuses trip relativelyfast.  Which can sometimes be a problem with motors which havelarge startup current surges.  For motor circuits, you can usea "time-delay" fuse (one brand is "fusetron") which will avoidtripping on momentary overloads.  A fusetron looks like aspring-loaded fuse.  A fuse can only trip once, then it must bereplaced.Breakers are fairly complicated mechanical devices.  Theyusually consist of one spring loaded contact which is latchedinto position against another contact.  When the current flowthrough the device exceeds the rated value, a bimetallic stripheats up and bends.  By bending it "trips" the latch, and thespring pulls the contacts apart.  Circuit breakers behavesimilarly to fusetrons - that is, they tend to take longer totrip at moderate overloads than ordinary fuses.  With highoverloads, they trip quickly.  Breakers can be reset a finitenumber of times - each time they trip, or are thrownwhen the circuit is in use, some arcing takes place, whichdamages the contacts.  Thus, breakers should not be used inplace of switches unless they are specially listed for thepurpose.Neither fuses nor breakers "limit" the current per se.  A deadshort on a circuit can cause hundreds or sometimes eventhousands of amperes to flow for a short period of time, whichcan often cause severe damage.Subject: Breakers?  Can't I use fuses?Statistics show that fuse panels have a significantly higherrisk of causing a fire than breaker panels.  This is usuallydue to the fuse being loosely screwed in, or the contactscorroding and heating up over time, or the wrong size fusebeing installed, or the proverbial "replace the fuse with apenny" trick.Since breakers are more permanently installed, and have betterconnection mechanisms, the risk of fire is considerably less.Fuses are prone to explode under extremely high overload.  Whena fuse explodes, the metallic vapor cloud becomes a conductingpath.  Result? from complete meltdown of the electrical panel,melted service wiring, through fires in the electricaldistribution transformer and having your house burn down.Breakers don't do this.Many jurisdictions, particularly in Canada, no longer permitfuse panels in new installations.  The NEC does permit newfuse panels in some rare circumstances (requiring the specialinserts to "key" the fuseholder to specific size fuses)Some devices, notably certain large air conditioners, require fuseprotection in addition to the breaker at the panel.  The fuseis there to protect the motor windings from overload.  Check thelabeling on the unit.  This is usually only on large permanentlyinstalled motors.  The installation instructions will tell youif you need one.Subject: What size wire should I use?For a 20 amp circuit, use 12 gauge wire.  For a 15 amp circuit,you can use 14 gauge wire (in most locales).  For a long run,though, you should use the next larger size wire, to avoidvoltage drops.  12 gauge is only slightly more expensive than14 gauge, though it's stiffer and harder to work with.Here's a quick table for normal situations.  Go up a size formore than 100 foot runs, when the cable is in conduit, organged with other wires in a place where they can't dissipateheat easily:Gauge		Amps14		1512		2010		308		406		65We don't list bigger sizes because it starts getting very dependenton the application and precise wire type.Subject: Where do these numbers come from?There are two considerations, voltage drop and heat buildup.The smaller the wire is, the higher the resistance is.  Whenthe resistance is higher, the wire heats up more, and there ismore voltage drop in the wiring.  The former is why you needhigher-temperature insulation and/or bigger wires for use inconduit; the latter is why you should use larger wire for longruns.Neither effect is very significant over very short distances.There are some very specific exceptions, where use of smallerwire is allowed.  The obvious one is the line cord on mostlamps.  Don't try this unless you're certain that your use fitsone of those exceptions; you can never go wrong by using largerwire.Subject: What does "14-2" mean?This is used to describe the size and quantity of conductorsin a cable.  The first number specifies the gauge.  The secondthe number of current carrying conductors in the wire - butremember there's usually an extra ground wire.  "14-2" means14 gauge, two insulated current carrying wires, plus bare ground.-2 wire usually has a black, white and bare ground wire.  Sometimesthe white is red instead for 220V circuits without neutral.  Inthe latter case, the sheath is usually red too.-3 wire usually has a black, red, white and bare ground wire.Usually carrying 220V with neutral.Subject: What is a "wirenut"/"marrette"/"marr connector"?  How are theyused?A wire nut is a cone shaped threaded plastic thingummy that's usedto connect wires together.  "Marrette" or "Marr connector"are trade names.  You'll usually use a lot of them in DIY wiring.In essence, you strip the end of the wires about an inch, twist themtogether, then twist the wirenut on.Though some wirenuts advertise that you don't need to twist thewire, do it anyways - it's more mechanically and electricallysecure.There are many different sizes of wire nut.  You should checkthat the wire nut you're using is the correct size for thequantity and sizes of wire you're connecting together.Don't just gimble the wires together with a pair of pliers oryour fingers.  Use a pair of blunt nose ("linesman") pliers,and carefully twist the wires tightly and neatly.  Sometimesit's a good idea to trim the resulting end to make sure itgoes in the wirenut properly.Some people wrap the "open" end of the wirenut with electricaltape.  This is probably not a good idea - the inspector maytear it off during an inspection.  It's usually done becausea bit of bare wire is exposed outside the wire nut - insteadof taping it, the connection should be redone.Subject: What is a GFI/GFCI?A GFCI is a ``ground-fault circuit interrupter''.  It measuresthe current current flowing through the hot wire and theneutral wire.  If they differ by more than a few milliamps, thepresumption is that current is leaking to ground via some otherpath.  This may be because of a short circuit to the chassis ofan appliance, or to the ground lead, or through a person.  Anyof these situations is hazardous, so the GFCI trips, breakingthe circuit.GFCIs do not protect against all kinds of electric shocks.  If,for example, you simultaneously touched the hot and neutralleads of a circuit, and no part of you was grounded, a GFCIwouldn't help.  All of the current that passed from the hotlead into you would return via the neutral lead, keeping theGFCI happy.The two pairs of connections on a GFCI outlet are not symmetric.One is labeled LOAD; the other, LINE.  The incoming power feed*must* be connected to the LINE side, or the outlet will not beprotected.  The LOAD side can be used to protect all devicesdownstream from it.  Thus, a whole string of outlets can becovered by a single GFCI outlet.Subject: Where should GFCIs be used?The NEC mandates GFCIs for 110V, 15A or 20A single phaseoutlets, in bathrooms, kitchens within 6' of the sink, garages,unfinished basements or crawl spaces, outdoors, near a pool, orjust about anywhere else where you're likely to encounter wateror dampness.  There are exceptions for inaccessible outlets,those dedicated to appliances ``occupying fixed space'',typically refrigerators and freezers, and for sump pumps andlaundry appliances.The CEC does not mandate as many GFCIs.  In particular, thereis no requirement to protect kitchen outlets, or most garage orbasement outlets.  Basement outlets must be protected if youhave a dirt floor, garage outlets if they're near the door tooutside.  Bathrooms and most exterior outlets must have GFCIs.Even if you are not required to have GFCI protection, you maywant to consider installing it anyway.  Unless you need a GFCIbreaker (see below), the cost is low.  In the U.S., GFCIoutlets can cost as little as US$8.  (Costs are a bit higher inCanada:  C$12.)  Evaluate your own risk factors.  Does yourfinished basement ever get wet?  Do you have small children?Do you use your garage outlets to power outdoor tools?  Doeswater or melted snow ever puddle inside your garage?Subject: Where shouldn't I use a GFCI?GFCIs are generally not used on circuits that (a) don't pose asafety risk, and (b) are used to power equipment that must rununattended for long periods of time.  Refrigerators, freezers,and sump pumps are good examples.  The rationale is that GFCIsare sometimes prone to nuisance trips.  Some people claim thatthe inductive delay in motor windings can cause a momentarycurrent imbalance, tripping the GFCI.  Note, though, that mostGFCI trips are real; if you're getting a lot of trips for noapparent reason, you'd be well-advised to check your wiringbefore deciding that the GFCI is broken or useless.Subject: What is the difference between a GFCI outlet and a GFCI breaker?For most situations, you can use either a GFCI outlet as thefirst device on the circuit, or you can install a breaker witha built-in GFCI.  The former is generally preferred, since GFCIbreakers are quite expensive.  For example, an ordinary GEbreaker costs ~US$5; the GFCI model costs ~US$35.  There is onemajor exception:  if you need to protect a ``multi-wire branchcircuit'' (two or more circuits sharing a common neutral wire),such as a Canadian-style kitchen circuit, you'll need amulti-pole GFCI breaker.  Unfortunately, these are expensive;the cost can range into the hundreds of dollars, depending onwhat brand of panel box you have.  But if you must protect sucha circuit (say, for a pool heater), you have no choice.One more caveat -- GFCI outlets are bulky.  You may want to usean oversize box when installing them.  On second thought, uselarge (actually deep) boxes everywhere.  You'll thank yourself for it.Incidentally, if you're installing a GFCI to ensure that onespecific outlet is protected (such as a bathroom), you don'treally have to go to all of the trouble to find the firstoutlet in the circuit, you could simply find the first outletin the bathroom, and not GFCI anything upstream of it.  Butprotecting the whole circuit is preferred.When you install a GFCI, it's a good idea to use the little"ground fault protected" stickers that come with it and markthe outlets downstream of the GFCI.  You can figure out whichoutlets are "downstream", simply by tripping the GFCI with thetest button and see which outlets are dead.Subject: What's the purpose of the ground prong on an outlet, then?Apart from their use in electronics, which we won't comment on,and for certain fluorescent lights (they won't turn on withouta good ground connection), they're intended to guard againstinsulation failures within the device.  Generally, the case ofthe appliance is connected to the ground lead.  If there's aninsulation failure that shorts the hot lead to the case, theground lead conducts the electricity away safely (and possiblytrips the circuit breaker in the process).  If the case is notgrounded and such a short occurs, the case is live -- and ifyou touch it while you're grounded, you'll get zapped.  Ofcourse, if the circuit is GFCI-protected, it will be a verytiny zap -- which is why you can use GFCIs to replaceungrounded outlets (both NEC and CEC).There are some appliances that should *never* be grounded.  Inparticular, that applies to toasters and anything else withexposed conductors.  Consider:  if you touch the heatingelectrode in a toaster, and you're not grounded, nothing willhappen.  If you're slightly grounded, you'll get a small shock;the resistance will be too high.  But if the case weregrounded, and you were holding it, you'd be the perfect path toground...Subject: Why is one prong wider than the other?  PolarizationNowadays, many two-prong devices have one prong wider than theother.  This is so that the device could rely (not guaranteed!)on one specific wire being neutral, and the other hot.This is particularly advantageous in light fixtures, where thethe shell should neutral (safety), or other devices which want tohave an approximate ground reference (ie: some radios).Most 2-prong extension cords have wide prongs too.This requires that you wire your outlets and plugs the rightway around.  You want the wide prong to be neutral, and thenarrow one hot.  Most outlets have a darker metal for thehot screw, and lighter coloured screw for the neutral.If not, you can usually figure out which is which by whichprong the terminating screw connects to.Subject: What kind of outlets do I need in a kitchen?The NEC requires at least two 20 amp ``small appliancecircuits'' for kitchens.  The CEC requires split-duplexreceptacles.  Outlets must be installed such that no point is morethan 24" (NEC) (900 mm CEC) from an outlet.  Every counter widerthan 12" (NEC) or 300 mm (CEC) must have at least one outlet.The circuit these outlets are on may not feed any outlets exceptin the kitchen, pantry, or dining room.  Furthermore, these circuitsare in addition to any required for refrigerators, stoves, microwaves,lighting, etc.  Non-dedicated outlets within 6' of a sink *must* beprotected by a GFCI (NEC only).Split duplex receptacles are fed with a 220V circuit.  The tabis broken on the hot side of the outlet, and one hot goes tothe upper outlet, and the other hot goes to the lower outlet.The neutral connects to both outlets through one screw.  When"carrying through" to another outlet, the neutral must bepigtailed, such that removing the outlet, or having the neutralconnection fall off doesn't cause the neutral to disconnectfrom downstream outlets.Subject: Where must outlets and switches be in bathrooms?There must be at least one outlet in each bathroom, adjacent tothe sink, in addition to any outlet that may be incorporated inthe light fixture.  All such outlets *must* be GFCI-protected.Subject: What is Romex/NM/NMD?  What is BX?  When should I use each?Romex is a brand name for a type of plastic insulated wire.Sometimes called non-metallic sheath.  The formal name is NM.This is suitable for use in dry, protected areas (ie: insidestud walls, on the sides of joists etc.), that are not subjectto mechanical damage or excessive heat.  Most newer homes arewired almost exclusively with NM wire.  There are severaldifferent categories of NM cable.BX cable -- technically known as armored cable or "AC" has aflexible aluminum or steel sheath over the conductors and isfairly resistant to damage.TECK cable is AC with an additional external thermoplasticsheath.Protection for cable in concealed locations: where NM or AC cableis run through studs, joists or similar wooden members, the outersurface of the cable must be kept at least 32mm/1.25" (CEC & NEC)from the edges of the wooden members, or the cable should be protectedfrom mechanical injury.  This latter protection can take the form ofmetal plates (such as spare outlet box ends) or conduit.[Note: inspector-permitted practise in Canada suggests that armoredcable, or flexible conduit can be used as the mechanical protection,but this is technically illegal.]Additional protection recommendations (these are rules in theCanadian codes - they are reasonable answers to the vaguereferences to "exposed to mechanical damage" in both the NECand CEC):- NM cable should be protected against mechanical damagewhere it passes through floors or on the surface of wallsin exposed locations under 5 feet from the floor.Ie: use AC instead, flexible conduit, wooden guards etc.- Where cable is suspended, as in, connections to furnacesor water heaters, the wire should be protected.  Canadianpractise is usually to install a junction or outletbox on the wall, and use a short length of AC cableor NM cable in flexible conduit to "jump" to the appliance.Stapling NM to a piece of lumber is also sometimes used.- Where NM cable is run in close proximity to heatingducts or pipe, heat transfer should be minimized bymeans of a 25mm/1" air space, or suitable insulationmaterial (a wad of fiberglass).- NM cable shall be supported within 300mm/1' of every boxor fitting, and at intervals of no more than 1.5m/5'.Holes in joists or studs are considered "supports".Some slack in the cable should be provided adjacent toeach box.  [while fishing cable is technically in violation,it is permitted where "proper" support is impractical]- 2 conductor NM cable should never be stapled on edge.[Knight also insists on only one cable per staple, referringto the "workmanship" clause, but this seems more honouredin the breach...]- cable should never be buried in plaster, cement orsimilar finish.- cable should be protected where it runs behind baseboards.- Cable may not be run on the upper edge of ceiling joistsor the lower edges of rafters where the headroom is morethan 1m (39").Whenever BX cable is terminated at a box with a clamp, smallplastic bushings must be inserted in the end of the cable toprevent the clamps forcing the sharp ends of the armor throughthe insulation.BX is sometimes a good idea in a work shop unless covered bysolid wall coverings.In places where damage is more likely (like on the back wall ofa garage ;-), you may be required to use conduit, aUL- (or CSA-) approved metal pipe.  You use various types offittings to join the pipe or provide entrance/exit for thewire.Service entrances frequently use a plastic conduit.In damp places (eg: buried wiring to outdoor lighting) you willneed special wire (eg: CEC NMW90, NEC UF).  NMW90 looks likevery heavy-duty NMD90.  You will usually need short lengths ofconduit where the wire enters/exits the ground.  [See undergroundwiring section.]Thermoplastic sheath wire (such as NM, NMW etc.) should not beexposed to direct sunlight unless explicitly approved for thatpurpose.Many electrical codes do not permit the routing of wire throughfurnace ducts, including cold air return plenums constructedby metal sheeting enclosing joist spaces.   The reason for thisis that if there's a fire, the ducting will spread toxic gassesfrom burning insulation very rapidly through the building.Teflon insulated wire is permitted in plenums in many areas.Canada appears to use similar wire designations to the US,except that Canadian wire designations usually include thetemperature rating in Celsius.  Eg: "AC90" versus "AC".In the US, NM-B is 90 degrees celcius.NOTE: local codes vary.  This is one of the items that changesmost often.  Eg: Chicago codes require conduit *everywhere*.There are very different requirements for mobile homes.Check your local codes, *especially* if you're doing anythingthat's the slightest out of the ordinary.Wire selection table (incomplete - the real tables are enormous,uncommon wire types or applications omitted)Condition			Type	CEC	NECExposed/Concealed dry		plastic	NMD90	NMarmor	AC90	ACTECK90Exposed/Concealed damp		plastic	NMD90	NMCarmor	ACWU90TECK90Exposed/Concealed wet		plastic	NMWU90armor	ACWU90TECK90Exposed to weather		plastic	NMWUTW etc.armor	TECK90Direct earth burial/		plastic	NMWU*	UFService entrance			RWUTWUarmor	RA90TECK90ACWU90[* NMWU not for service entrance]Subject: Should I use plastic or metal boxes?The NEC permits use of plastic boxes with non-metallic cableonly.  The reasoning is simple -- with armored cable, the boxitself provides ground conductor continuity.  U.S. plasticboxes don't use metal cable clamps.The CEC is slightly different.  The CEC never permits cablearmor as a grounding conductor.  However, you must stillprovide ground continuity for metallic sheath.  The CEC alsorequires grounding of any metal cable clamps on plastic boxes.The advantage of plastic boxes is comparatively minor even fornon-metallic sheathed cable -- you can avoid making one groundconnection and they sometimes cost a little less.  On the otherhand, plastic boxes are more vulnerable to impacts.  Forexposed or shop wiring, metal boxes are probably better.Subject: Junction box positioning?A junction box is a box used only for connecting wires together.Junction boxes must be located in such a way that they're accessiblelater.  Ie: not buried under plaster.  Excessive use of junctionboxes is often a sign of sloppy installation, and inspectors mayget nasty.Subject: Can I install a replacement light fixture?In general, one can replace fixtures freely, subject to a fewcaveats.  First, of course, one should check the amperagerating of the circuit.  If your heart is set on installing halfa dozen 500 watt floodlights, you may need to run a new wireback to the panel box.  But there are some more subtleconstraints as well.  For example, older housewiring doesn't have high-temperature insulation.  The excessheat generated by a ceiling-mounted lamp can and will cause theinsulation to deteriorate and crack, with obvious bad results.Some newer fixtures are specifically marked for hightemperature wire only.  (You may find, in fact, that yourceiling wiring already has this problem, in which casereplacing any devices is a real adventure.)Other concerns include providing a suitable ground for somefluorescent fixtures, and making sure that the ceiling box andits mounting are strong enough to support the weight of a heavychandelier or ceiling fan.  You may need to install a new boxspecifically listed for this purpose.  A 2x4 across the ceilingjoists makes a good support.  Metal brackets are also availablethat can be fished into ceilings thru the junction box hole andmounted between the joists.There are special rules for recessed light fixtures such as"pot" lamps or heat lamps.  When these are installed in insulatedceilings, they can present a very substantial fire hazard.The CEC provides for the installation of pot lamps in insulatedceilings, provided that the fixture is boxed in a "coffin" (usually8'x16"x12" - made by making a pair of joists 12" high, and coveringwith plywood) that doesn't have any insulation.  (Yes, that's 8 *feet*long)NEC rules are somewhat less stringent.  They require at least 3"clearance between the fixture and any sort of thermal insulation.The rules also say that one should not obstruct free air movement,which means that a CEC-style ``coffin'' might be worthwhile.Presumably, that's up to the local inspector.  [The CEC doesn'tactually mandate the coffin per-se, this seems to be an inspectorrequirement to make absolutely certain that the fixture can't getaccidentally buried in insulation.  Ie: if you have insulation blownin later.]There are now fixtures that contain integral thermal cutouts andfairly large cases that can be buried directly in insulation.  They areusually limited to 75 watt bulbs, and are unfortunately, somewhatmore expensive than the older types.  Before you use them, you shouldensure that they have explicit UL or CSA approval for such uses.Follow the installation instructions carefully; the prescribed locationfor the sensor can vary.There does not yet appear to be a heat lamp fixture that is approvedfor use in insulation.  The "coffin" appears the only legal approach.Subject: What does it mean when the lights brighten when a motor starts?This usually means that the neutral wire in the panel isloose.  Depending on the load balance, one hot wire may end upbeing more than 110V, and the other less than 110V, withrespect to ground.  This is a very hazardous situation - it candestroy your electronic equipment, possibly start fires, and insome situations electrocute you (ie: some US jurisdictionsrequire the stove frame connected to neutral).If this happens, contact your electrical authority immediatelyand have them come and check out the problem.Note: a brief (< 1 second) brightening is sometimes normal withlighting and motors on the same 220V with neutral circuit.  Aloose main panel neutral will usually show increased brightnessfar longer than one second.  In case of doubt, get help.Subject: What is 3 phase power?  Should I use it?  Can I get it in my house?Three phase power has three "hot" wires, 120 degrees out ofphase with each other.  These are usually used for large motorsbecause it is more "efficient", provides a bit more starting torque,and because the motors are simpler and hence cheaper.You're most likely to encounter a 3 phase circuit that shows110 volts between any hot and ground, and 208 volts betweenany two hots.  The latter shows the difference between a normal220V/110V common neutral circuit, which is 240 volts between thetwo hots.  There are 3 phase circuits with different voltages.Bringing in a 3 phase feed to your house is usuallyridiculously expensive, or impossible.  If the equipment youwant to run has a standard motor mount, it is *MUCH* cheaper tobuy a new 110V or 220V motor for it.  In some cases it ispossible to run 3 phase equipment on ordinary power if you havea "capacitor start" unit, or use a larger motor as a(auto-)generator.  These are tricky, but are a good solution ifthe motor is non-standard size, or too expensive or too big toreplace.  The Taunton Press book ``The Small Shop'' has anarticle on how to do this if you must.Note that you lose any possible electrical efficiency by usingsuch a converter.  The laws of thermodynamics guarantee that.Subject: Is it better to run motors at 110 or 220?Theoretically, it doesn't make any difference.  However, thereis a difference is the amount of power lost in the supplywiring.  All things being equal, a 220V motor will lose 4 timesless power in the house wiring than a 110V motor.  This alsomeans that the startup surge loss will be less, and the motorwill get to speed quicker.  And in some circumstances, thesmaller power loss will lead to longer motor life.This is usually irrelevant unless the supply wires are morethan 50 feet long.Subject: What is this nonsense about 3HP on 110V 15A circuits?It is a universal physical law that 1 HP is equal to 746watts.  Given heating loss, power factor and other inefficiencies,it is usually best to consider 1 HP is going to need 1000-1200watts.  A 110V 15A circuit can only deliver 1850 watts to a motor,so it cannot possibly be more than approximately 2 HP.  Given rationalefficiency factors, 1.5HP is more like it.Some equipment manufacturers (Sears in particular, most routermanufacturers in general ;-) advertise a HP rating that is farin excess of what is possible.  They are giving you a "stallhorsepower" or similar.  That means the power is measured whenthe motor is just about to stop turning because of the load.What they don't mention is that if you kept it in thatcondition for more than a few seconds hopefully your breakerwill trip, otherwise the motor will melt -- it's drawing farmore current than it can continuously.When comparing motors, compare the continuous horsepower.  Thisshould be on the motor nameplate.  If you can't find that figure,check the amperage rating, which is always present.Subject: How do I convert two prong receptacles to three prong?Older homes frequently have two-prong receptacles insteadof the more modern three.  These receptacles have no safetyground, and the cabling usually has no ground wire.  Neitherthe NEC or CEC permits installing new 2 prong receptacles anymore.There are several different approaches to solving this:1) If the wiring is done through conduit or BX, and theconduit is continuous back to the panel, you can connectthe third prong of a new receptacle to the receptaclebox.  NEC mainly - CEC frowns on this practise.2) If there is a copper cold water pipe going nearby, andit's continuous to the main house ground point, you canrun a conductor to it from the third prong.3) Run a ground conductor back to the main panel.4) Easiest: install a GFCI receptacle.  The ground lugshould not be connected to anything, but the GFCIprotection itself will serve instead.  The GFCIwill also protect downstream (possibly also two prongoutlets).  If you do this to protect downstream outlets,the grounds must not be connected together.  Since itwouldn't be connected to a real ground, a wiring faultcould energize the cases of 3 prong devices connectedto other outlets.  Be sure, though, that there aren'tindirect ground plug connections, such as via the sheathon BX cable.The CEC permits you to replace a two prong receptacle with a threeprong if you fill the U ground with a non-conducting goop.Like caulking compound.  This is not permitted in the NEC.Subject: Are you sure about GFCIs and ungrounded outlets?Should the test button work?We're sure about what the NEC and CEC say.  Remember, though,that your local codes may vary.  As for the TEST button -- there'sa resistor connecting the LOAD side of the hot wire to the LINEside of the neutral wire when you press the TEST button.  Currentthrough this resistor shows up as an imbalance, and trips the GFCI.This is a simple, passive, and reliable test, and doesn't requirea real ground to work.  If your GFCI does not trip when you pressthe TEST button, it is very probably defective or miswired.  Again:if the test button doesn't work, something's broken, and potentiallydangerous.  The problem should be corrected immediately.The instructions that come with some GFCIs specify that the groundwire must be connected.  We do not know why they say this.  Thecauses may be as mundane as an old instruction sheet, or with theformalities of UL or CSA listing -- perhaps the device was nevertested without the ground wire being connected.  On the other hand,UL or CSA approval should only have been granted if the devicebehaves properly in *all* listed applications, including ungroundedoutlet replacement.  (One of us called Leviton; their GFCIs arelabeled for installation on grounded circuits only.  The technicianwas surprised to see that; he agreed that the NEC does not requireit, and promised to investigate.)Subject: How should I wire my shop?As with any other kind of wiring, you need enough power for alldevices that will be on simultaneously.  The code specifiesthat you should stay under 80% of the nominal capacity of thecircuit.  For typical home shop use, this means one circuit forthe major power tools, and possibly one for a dust collector orshop vac.  Use at least 12 gauge wire -- many power tools havebig motors, with a big start-up surge.  If you can, use 20 ampbreakers (NEC), though CEC requires standard 20A receptacleswhich means you'd have to "replug" all your equipment.  Lightsshould either be on a circuit of their own -- and not sharedwith circuits in the rest of the house -- or be on at least twoseparate circuits.  The idea is that you want to avoid asituation where a blade is still spinning at several thousandRPM, while you're groping in the dark for the OFF switch.Do install lots of outlets.  It's easier to install them in thebeginning, when you don't have to cut into an existing cable.It's useful if at least two circuits are accessible at eachpoint, so you can run a shop vac or a compressor at the sametime as the tool you really want.  But use metal boxes andplates, and maybe even metal-sheathed cable; you may haveobjects flying around at high speeds if something goes a bitwrong.Note that some jurisdictions have a "no horizontal wiring"rule in workshops or other unfinished areas that are usedfor working.  What this means is that all wiring must berun along structural members.  Ie: stapled to studs.Other possible shop circuits include heater circuits, 220Vcircuits for some large tools, and air compressor circuits.Don't overload circuits, and don't use extension cords if youcan help it, unless they're rated for high currents.  (A coiledextension cord is not as safe as a straight length of wire ofthe same gauge.  Also, the insulation won't withstand as muchheat, and heat dissipation is the critical issue.)If your shop is located at some remove from your main panel,you should probably install a subpanel, and derive your shopwiring from it.  If you have young children, you may want toequip this panel with a cut-off switch, and possibly a lock.If you want to install individual switches to ``safe''particular circuits, make sure you get ones rated high enough.For example, ordinary light switches are not safely able tohandle the start-up surge generated by a table saw.  Buy``horsepower-rated'' switches instead.Finally, note that most home shops are in garages or unfinishedbasements; hence the NEC requirements for GFCIs apply.  Andeven if you ``know'' that you'd never use one of your shopoutlets to run a lawn mower, the next owner of your house mighthave a different idea.Note: Fine Woodworking magazine often carries articles on shopwiring.  April 1992 is one place to start.Subject: Underground WiringYou will need to prepare a trench to specifications, usespecial wire, protect the wire with conduit or special plastictubing and possibly lumber (don't use creosoted lumber, it rotsthermoplastic insulation and acts as a catalyst in the corrosionof lead).  The transition from in-house to underground wire isgenerally via conduit.  All outdoor boxes must be specificallylisted for the purpose, and contain the appropriate gaskets,fittings, etc.  If the location of the box is subject to immersionin water, a more serious style of water-proof box is needed.  Andof course, don't forget the GFCIs.The required depths and other details vary from jurisdiction tojurisdiction, so we suggest you consult your inspector aboutyour specific situation.A hint: buy a roll of bright yellow tape that says "buried powerline" and bury it a few inches above where the wire has been placed.Subject: Aluminum wiringDuring the 1970's, aluminum (instead of copper) wiring becamequite popular and was extensively used.  Since that time,aluminum wiring has been implicated in a number of house fires,and most jurisdictions no longer permit it in new installations.We recommend, even if you're allowed to, that do not use it for newwiring.But don't panic if your house has aluminum wiring.  Aluminumwiring, when properly installed, can be just as safe as copper.Aluminum wiring is, however, very unforgiving of improperinstallation.  We will cover a bit of the theory behind potentialproblems, and what you can do to make your wiring safe.The main problem with aluminum wiring is a phenomenon known as"cold creep".  When aluminum wiring warms up, it expands.  Whenit cools down, it contracts.  Unlike copper, when aluminum goesthrough a number of warm/cool cycles it loses a bit of tightness eachtime.  To make the problem worse, aluminum oxidises, or corrodeswhen in contact with certain types of metal, so the resistanceof the connection goes up.  Which causes it to heat up and corrode/oxidize still more.  Eventually the wire may start getting very hot,melt the insulation or fixture it's attached to, and possibly evencause a fire.Since people usually encounter aluminum wiring when they moveinto a house built during the 70's, we will cover basic points ofsafe aluminum wiring.  We suggest that, if you're considering purchasinga home with aluminum wiring, or have discovered it later, that youhire a licensed electrician or inspector to check over the wiringfor the following things:1) Fixtures (eg: outlets and switches) directly attached toaluminum wiring should be rated for it.  The device willbe stamped with "Al/Cu" or "CO/ALR".  The latter supersedesthe former, but both are safe.   These fixtures are somewhatmore expensive than the ordinary ones.2) Wires should be properly connected (at least 3/4 way aroundthe screw in a clockwise direction).  Connections should betight.  While repeated tightening of the screws can make theproblem worse, during the inspection it would pay off to snugup each connection.Note that aluminum wiring is still often used for themain service entrance cable.  It should be inspected.3) "push-in" terminals are an extreme hazard with aluminum wire.Any connections using push-in terminals should be redone withthe proper screw connections immediately.4) There should be no signs of overheating: darkened connections,melted insulation, or "baked" fixtures.  Any such damage shouldbe repaired.5) Connections between aluminum and copper wire need to behandled specially.  Current Canadian codes require that thewire nut used must be specially marked for connectingaluminum to copper.  The NEC requires that the wire beconnected together using special crimp devices, with ananti-oxidant grease.  The tools and materials for the latterare quite expensive - not practical to do it yourself unlessyou can rent the tool.6) Any non-rated receptacle can be connected to aluminum wiringby means of a short copper "pigtail".  See (5) above.7) Shows reasonable workmanship: neat wiring, properly stripped(not nicked) wire etc.If, when considering purchasing a home, an inspection of the wiringshows no problems or only one or two, we believe that you can considerthe wiring safe.  If there are signs of problems in many places,we suggest you look elsewhere.  If the wrong receptacles are used,you can replace them with the proper type, or use pigtails - havingthis professionally done can range from $3 to $10 per receptacle/switch.You can do this yourself too.Subject: I'm buying a house!  What should I do?Congratulations.  But...  It's generally a good idea to hirean inspector to look through the house for hidden gotchas.Not just for wiring, but plumbing and structural as well.  If aninspection of the wiring shows no problems or only one or two minorones, we believe that you can consider the wiring safe (after anyminor problems are fixed).  If there are signs of problems in manyplaces, we suggest you look elsewhere.Here's some hints on what to look for:Obvious non-code wiring can include:- Zip cord wiring, either concealed or nailed to walls- Hot wiring on the identified (neutral) conductor withoutproper marking.- Ungrounded grounding outlets (except when downstream ofa GFCI)- Splices hanging in mid-air (other than proper knob-and-tube)- Switched neutrals- Unsecured Romex swinging about like grapevinesCertain wiring practises that are actually to code (or were at onetime) sometimes reveal DIY wiring that may have hidden violations:- Switches that seem to control nothing (abandoned, perhapsnot properly terminated wiring)- A wall switch that shuts off a group of lights that areseparately controlled by other wall switches.  (except whenit's *really* convenient ;-)- Switches and outlets in bizarre locations- Great numbers of junction boxes without outlets or lamps- Junction boxes with great numbers of wires going into them- Wiring that passes through a closet instead of a wall orceiling- Backwrapped grounding wiresSubject: What is this weird stuff?  Old style wiringIn the years since Edison "invented" electricity, several differentwiring "styles" have come and gone.  When you buy an older home youmay encounter some of this stuff.  This section describes the oldmethods, and some of their idiosyncrasies.The oldest wiring system you're likely to encounter is called"knob and tube" (K&T).  It is made up of individual conductors witha cloth insulation.  The wires are run along side structuralmembers (eg: joists or studs) using ceramic stand-offs (knobs).Wire is run through structural members using ceramic tubes.  Connectionswere made by twisting the wire together, soldering, and wrappingwith tape.  Since the hot and neutral were run separately,the wiring tends to be rather confusing.  A neutral often runsdown the centre of each room, with "taps" off to each fixture.The hot wire tended to run from one fixture to the next.  In somecases K&T isn't colour-coded, so the neutral is often the samecolour as the hot wires.You'll see K&T in homes built as late as the 40's.Comments on K&T:- the people installing K&T were pretty paranoid aboutelectricity, so the workmanship tends to be pretty good.- The wire, insulation and insulators tend to stand upvery well.  Most K&T I've seen, for example, is inquite good condition.- No grounding.  Grounding is usually difficult to install.- boxes are small.  Receptacle replacement (particularly withGFCI) can be difficult.  No bushing on boxes either,so wiring changes need special attention to box entry.- Sometimes the neutral isn't balanced very well betweenseparately hot circuits, so it is sometimes possible tooverload the neutral without exceeding the fusing onany circuit.- Building code does not permit insulation in wallsthat contain K&T.- Connection to existing K&T from new circuits can betricky.  Consult your inspector.- Modern wiring practise requires considerably moreoutlets to be installed than K&T systems did.Since K&T tends to be in pretty decent condition it generally isn'tnecessary to replace it simply because it's K&T.  What you shouldwatch out for is renovations that have interfered with it andbe cautious about circuit loading.  In many cases it's perfectlyreasonable to leave existing K&T alone, and add new fixtures onnew circuits using modern techniques.After K&T, they invented multi-conductor cable.  The first typeyou will see is roughly a cloth and varnish insulation.  It looksmuch like the romex cable of the last decade or two.  This stuff wasused in the 40's and 50's.  Again, no grounding conductor.It was installed much like modern wiring.  Its major drawbackis that this type of insulation embrittles.  We've seen wholesystems where the insulation would fracture and fall off ata touch.  BX cable of the same vintage has similar problems.This stuff is very fragile, and becomes rather hazardous ifthe wires become bare.  This wiring should be left untouched asmuch as possible - whenever an opportunity arises, replace it.A simple receptacle or switch replacement can turn into a severalhour long frustrating fight with electrical tape or heat-shrinktubing.After this wiring technique, the more modern romex was invented.It's almost a asphalt impregnated cloth.  Often a bit sticky.This stuff stands up reasonably well and doesn't present a hazardand is reasonably easy to work with.  It does not need to bereplaced - it should be considered as safe as the "modern" stuff -thermoplastic insulation wire.  Just don't abuse it too much.Subject: Where do I buy stuff?Try to find a proper electrical supply outlet near you.  Theirprices will often be considerably better than chain hardware stores orDIY centres, have better quality materials, have wider varietyincluding the "odd" stuff, and have people behind the counter thatknow what you're talking about.  Cultivate friendly knowledgeablesales people.  They'll give you much valuable information.--Chris Lewis; clewis@ferret.ocunix.on.ca; Phone: Canada 613 832-0541Psroff 3.0 info: psroff-request@ferret.ocunix.on.caFerret list: ferret-request@ferret.ocunix.on.ca