In article <1993Apr14.172145.27458@ecsvax.uncecs.edu>, crisp@ecsvax.uncecs.edu (Russ Crisp) writes:> I'm considering modernizing some old wiring in my home, and> I need a little advice on outlet wiring.  Several outlets> are the old 'two prong' type, without the ground.  Naturally,> the wire feeding these outlets is 12/2, WITHOUT the ground> wire.  I noticed at the fusebox that some circuits have the> 12/2 with ground, and that on these circuits, the ground> wire was tied to the same bus as the neutral (white) wire.>> SO..  Here's my question.  It seems to me that I'd have the> same electrical circuit if I hooked the jumper from the neutral> over to the ground screw on new 'three prong' grounding outlets.> What's wrong with my reasoning here?No.  No.  NOOO!!!The ground (green) wire is for safety.  No current is supposed to flow in itunder normal conditions.  This means that there's normally no voltage drop init either.  It is supposed to be safe to touch the ground wire... even ifyou're grounded in some other way at the same time.The neutral (white) wire is, as Dave Vanderbyl correctly said, the return forthe hot wire.  Since current flows in it, there's a voltage drop.  If youplug a heavy load into a properly-wired grounded outlet, you can commonlymeasure a volt or so of difference between neutral and ground.They are supposed to be connected together at the breaker panel... but nowhere,repeat NOwhere, else.  (Well, almost.  There are strange exceptions for thingslike sub-panels.)What you CAN do if you want three-prong outlets without additional wiring isto use a GFCI outlet (or breaker, but the outlet will be cheaper).  In fact,depending on where you are putting your new outlet(s), a GFCI may be *required*.There is a FAQ on electrical wiring, posted regularly to rec.woodworking andnews.answers.  It goes into great detail on these issues (including GFCIs) andyou should probably read it before asking any more questions.  I'll mail a copyto you, append a copy here, and will ask the writers to cross-post it here inthe future.--- Jamie Hanrahan, Kernel Mode Systems, San Diego CAInternet:  jeh@cmkrnl.com  Uucp: uunet!cmkrnl!jeh  CIS: 74140,2055