Note: These trial updates are summarized from reports in the_Idaho Statesman_ and the local NBC affiliate televisionstation, KTVB Channel 7.Randy Weaver/Kevin Harris trial update: Day 4.Friday, April 16, 1993 was the fourth day of the trial.Synopsis: Defense attorney Gerry Spence cross-examined agentCooper under repeated objections from prosecutor RonaldHowen.  Spence moved for a mistrial but was denied.The day was marked by a caustic cross-examination of DeputyMarshal Larry Cooper by defense attorney Gerry Spence.  AlthoughSpence has not explicitly stated so, one angle of his stategymust involve destroying the credibility of agent Cooper.  Cooper isthe government's only eyewitness to the death of agent Degan.Spence attacked Cooper's credibility by pointing out discrepanciesbetween Cooper's statements last September and those made in court.Cooper conceded that, "You have all these things compressed intoa few seconds...It's difficult to remember what went on first."Cooper acknowledged that he carried a "9mm Colt Commando submachinegun with a silenced barrel." [I thought a Colt Commando was a revolver!]Cooper continued by stating that the federal agents had no specificplans to use the weapon when they started to kill Weaver's dog.When Spence asked how seven cartridges could be fired by Degan'sM-16 rifle when Degan was apparently dead, Cooper could not say forsure that Degan did not return fire before going down.Spence continued by asking with how many agents (and to what extent)had Cooper discussed last August's events, Cooper responded, "Ifyou're implying that we got our story together, you're wrong,counselor."  Spence continued to advance the defense's version ofthe events: Namely, that a marshal had started the shooting bykilling the Weaver's dog.  Cooper disagreed.Assistant U.S. Attorney Ronald Howen repeatedly objected to Spence'svirulent cross-examination of agent Cooper, arguing that the questionswere repetitive and Spence was wasting time.  Howen also complainedthat Spence was improperly using a cross-examination to advance thedefense's version of the events.  U.S. District Judge Edward Lodgesustained many of the objections; however, both lawyers persisteduntil Judge Lodge had the jury leave the room and proceded toadmonish both attorneys.  "I'm not going to play games with eithercounsel.  This has been a personality problem from day 1, so startacting like professionals."Spence told the judge that, "When all the evidence is in, we'll seethat ... his [agent Larry Cooper] testimony is not credible, thathe was panicked and cannot remember the sequence of events."Spence continued, "We're going to find...that there is a very unlikelysimilarity - almost as if it had come out of a cookie cutter - betweenthe testimony of Mr. Cooper and the other witnesses."Spence then moved for a mistrial on the grounds that Howen's repeatedobjections would prevent a fair trial, "We can't have a fair trial if thejury believes I'm some sort of charlatan, if the jury believes I'mbending the rules or engaging in some delaying tactic or that I'mviolating court orders."Judge Lodge called the notion that his repeated sustainings of Howen'sobjections had somehow prejudiced the jury was "preposterous" anddenied the motion for a mistrial.  Lodge did tell Howen to restricthis comments when objecting.The trial resumed with the prosecution calling FBI Special Agent GregRampton.  The prosecution's purpose was simply to introduce fiveweapons found in the cabin as evidence: However, the defense seizedon the opportunity to further address Cooper's credibility.Defense attorney Ellison Matthews (Harris' other attorney) questionedRampton about the dog.  Rampton stated that there were no specificplans to kill the Weaver's dog without being detected.  Matthews thenhad Rampton read  a Septtember 15, 1992 transcript in which Ramptonhad said that Cooper had said that the purpose of the silenced weaponwas to kill the dog without being detected, if the dog chased them.Rampton then acknowledged that he believed that Cooper had said that,but he could not remember when.  He then stated that, "I did not conductthe primary interview with Deputy Cooper, but I have had conversationswith him since the interview was conducted."Monday, April 19, 1993 will begin the fifth day of the trial.  Scheduledis the continued cross-examination of FBI agent Greg Rampton.