Dennis Deconcini, 1982...In these and similar areas, theBureau has violated not only the dictates of common sense, but of 5U.S.C. Sec 552, which was intended to prevent "secret lawmaking" byadministrative bodies.These practices, amply documented in hearings before this Sub-committee, leave little doubt that the Bureau has disregardedrights guaranteed by the constitution and laws of the UnitedStates.It has trampled upon the second amendment by chilling exerciseof the right to keep and bear arms by law-abiding citizens.It has offended the fourth amendment by unreasonably search-ing and seizing private property.It has ignored the Fifth Amendment by taking private propertywithout just compensation and by entrapping honest citizens with-out regard for their right to due process of law.The rebuttal presented to the Subcommittee by the Bureau wasutterly unconvincing. Richard Davis, speaking on behalf of theTreasury Department, asserted vaguely that the Bureau's prioritieswere aimed at prosecuting willful violators, particularly felons ille-gally in possession, and at confiscating only guns actually likely tobe used in crime. He also asserted that the Bureau has recentlymade great strides toward achieving these priorities. No documen-tation was offered for either of these assertions. In hearings beforeBATF's Appropriations Subcommittee, however, expert evidencewas submitted establishing that approximately 75 percent of BATFgun prosecutions were aimed at ordinary citizens who had neithercriminal intent nor knowledge, but were enticed by agents intounknowning technical violations.( Exerpt from: 97th Congress; 2d Session   COMMITTEE PRINTT H E   R I G H T   T O   K E E P   A N D   B E A R   A R M SREPORTof theSUBCOMMITTEE ON THE CONSTITUTIONof theCOMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARYUNITED STATES SENATENINETY-SEVENTH CONGRESSSECOND SESSIONFEBRUARY, 1982Printed for the use of the Committee on the JudiciaryU.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE88-618 OWASHINGTON : 1982Letter to Constituent: April 1993Thank you for contacting me regarding the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco,and Firearms (ATF), which is the Federal law enforcement agency withjurisdiction over firearms violations and regulations.It has been my experience as chairman of the AppropriationsSubcommittee on Treasury, Postal Service and General Government whichfunds ATF, that ATF is one of the most competent and highlyprofessional law enforcement agencies in the Federal government.The agents of ATF have proven their value again and again insuccessful, legal operations to curb the unlawful possession and useof firearms, especially in the area of  drug-related crimes.  Itenforces the Armed Career Criminal Act which calls for mandatoryminimum sentences for repeat felons using firearms to carry out  anillegal activity.  The Bureau has made itself a key component inpreventing gang related violence, also, both by educating at-riskyouth to the dangers of gang membership as well a s by depriving knowngangs from access to weapons.The Waco, Texas case involved the execution of search warrants by ATFon the Branch Davidians for illegal firearms and explosives possession(automatics, semi-automatics, and machine-guns, in addition to bombsand other explosives.)  In virtually every gun case, ATF is asked totrace weapons through its' National Firearms Tracing Center, wherethey keep all dealer and Federal firearms license information.  ATFis the Federal governments' firearms expert and routinely works withstate and local police to execute warrants.  ATF, working with stateand local law enforcement in Texas and the U.S. Attorneys' officefelt it was necessary to execute these warrants in order to legallyestablish that a crime had been committed and conclude a long andthorough investigation of illegal gun and explosives held by membersof the Branch Davidians.  In addition, ATF carefully selected aSunday morning, knowing from their source, inside, that the men wouldbe separated from the women and children and not in the area whereit was known that the illegal weapons were stored.As you may be aware by now, Vernon Howell a.k.a. David Koreshspiritual leader of the Branch Davidians was tipped of the impendingexecution of the search warrants.  Unfortunately, ATF lost theelement of surprise and the cult was able to arm themselves  andprepare for ATFs' entry into the compound.  Once a hostage situationpresented itself, the ATF asked the FBI to become involved since theFBI is skilled in hostage negotiations.  In addition, and militarytanks were brought in due to the serious nature of the situation andfirepower of the Branch Davidians.Based on what I have learned about ATF's role in the Branch Davidianraid, I believe the agency acted responsibly.  I am, however, deeplysaddened by the loss of lives of the 4 law enforcement agents whoattempted to enter the compound and the civilian members of thecult.  I fully expect the Department of  Treasury to conduct athorough evaluation with representatives from law enforcement outsidethe Department to be headed by the Assistant Secretary forEnforcement.  In addition, ATF will conduct its' own review of theWaco operation.  I look forward to reviewing the findings of theevaluators and hope this situation in Waco will be brought to a quickand peaceful conclusion.Sincerely,Dennis DeConciniChairmanSubcommittee on Treasury,Postal Service andGeneral GovernmentApril 7, 1993--Larry Cipriani -- l.v.cipriani@att.com