A few comments on the ATF's botched handling of this case:1. Attempting to storm the compound in broad daylight?  The explanationwe were given (at least at one point) was that they thought the cultmembers would be at religious services.  My only comment on this bitof idiocy is that if you're going to operate as a quasi-military unit,you'd better understand basic military tactics.  One cardinal ruleis that only a fool plans an operation where if one assumption isincorrect, the operation will fail disastrously.2. We were told that ATF got four agents killed because they wereoutgunned, they didn't expect such heavy resistance.  Whenquestioned about why such an overwhelming military-style assaultwas planned, we were told that it was because the cultists werethought to be heavily armed.  Can you say contradictory?  I knewyou could!3. The BATF has had a bad reputation for years as a bunch of arrogant,hotdoggers.  I was talking to relatives a couple of weeks ago andreferred to them as a bunch of Crockett and Tubbs wannabes.  I'mmore than ever convinced that's right on target.  An anecdote notrelated to the Waco fiasco is that apparently the BATF screwed upsome of the evidence in the World Trade Center bombing.  There'snow an excellent chance some of the forensic evidence gathered bythe FBI will not be admissible in court.  This is not hearsay.  Iwas told this by a relative of my wife's who happens to be an FBIagent.  His opinion of the BATF was, ummm, well, let's just sayuncomplimentary.4. I have *still* not been presented with one iota of evidence thatthe BD's had *any* of the alleged illegal weaponry which was thereason for the raid in the first place.  BTW, we're *still* hearingthis justification.  AG Reno, on CNN yesterday, made referencesto this issue, without any substantiation.  She also waved aroundthe "He's a child abuser and we heard he was beating the children!"flag.  Sigh.5. A point re the Feds in general: their handling of the whole siegereflected a complete lack of understanding of the probable thoughtprocesses of the cultists.  AG Reno said they pushed the buttonbecause they were afraid a mass suicide was in the offing.  Myonly comment on that is that if the cultists were that close tothe edge, what the hell did she think their reaction would be toan hours-long assault on the compound where holes were punched inthe walls and CS gas pumped in?  If I were a BD, I'd expect theforces of the godless government to assault me at any time.  Inthat light, whether they torched themselves or drank Jim JonesKool-Aid is irrelevant.  Also, look at how the siege was conducted:Bright lights, loud rock music, cutting off communications andother contact with the outside.  All measures designed to make theBD's feel more and more isolated and threatened.  This might havebeen a great strategy - if they were dealing with criminals.  As itwas, it looks to me like everything they did fed into Koresh'sparanoid delusions.--#include <std_disclaimer.h>Dan S.