Distribution: worldMessage-ID: <1ps9grINN5hp@borg.cs.unc.edu>References: <20593.2bbd7cd5@ecs.umass.edu>NNTP-Posting-Host: sirius.cs.unc.eduWell, although this may be an uncommon occurrence (or not) I had a "bad"experience with TechWorks.  This past summer I upgraded (increased) the memory ina powerbook and a ci.   When I called to place the order for the PB RAM, I wastold by the sales person that they would give me a $50 rebate if I would returnthe original RAM (which was also TechWorks RAM.)  I followed the instructions forreturning the old RAM, expecting to see a credit on my VISA within a few weeks.Well, months went by, and no credit.  After many calls (almost none of which wereever returned - arghhh) I finally found someone who told me "Why we neverreceived your old chips."  I then explained I the procedure that I hadfollowed to return them, to which the person replied "You mean you sent themUS Mail?" (which I had, per the original sales person's instructions.)  I wastold that they their loss of US mail shipments is not uncommon (come on) and thatI should have sent the stuff via FedEx, etc.  I reasoned that I had done exactlywhat I had been told to, but they would not budge, the people I spoke with wereabsolutely no help.  I sent letters, copies of the original receipts, attemptedto trace the package through the US mail, made *many* more phone calls toTechWorks, all to no avail (I wouldn't give-up because I was so disgusted.)Sales/support people, supervisors, there was nothing I could do to pursuade themto "make it right."I finally (in total disgust) wrote a letter to my credit card company, askingthem to investigate the problem.   Three weeks later, the credit miraculouslyappeared on my statement.  I have not (in recent memory) been so disgusted withthe service that I received from a company.  In all fairness, they had no way ofknowing that was not trying to rip them off, but I went to *such* great lengthsto prove to them that this really happened.  Oh well, c'est la vie.  I will neverbuy another product from them again.(There - had to get that off my chest!)