In article <1993Apr1.054820.3942@siemens.co.at> Kurt Netzer,kurt@siemens.co.at writes:>Is it possible to install a 2nd 3 1/2" 100 MB HD in a Mac II with a>5 1/4" 40 MB Qunatum HD?>Can i us a 50 pin cable with 3 connectors for the internal motherboard>SCSI-Connector and the 2 SCSI-HD Connectors. The first HD is'ntterminated>the second will be.>Whats about the power supply. Where can i connect a 3 1/2" AMP-Connector>to supply my 3 1/2" HD?It is very possible to connect another internal hard disk in anymacintosh if you can find the space to put it. I have a IIsi that camewith a Quantum 80 meg drive. When I ran into space problems, I slapped inanother 40 meg quantum that I had sitting on a shelf. Here is what I did.First off, I was concerned about space. Since both drives are Quantumquarter height drives, I finally decided that the logical place for themwas stacked one upon the other. Fine, they fit snugly. (I have not had aproblem with heat yet, and these drives have been running together forover two months.The next problem was connecting the drive. If you have a spare internalhard disk power cable as I did, then half of your troubles are over. justsplice in the extra cable so that you get one square motherboardconnector and two hard disk power connectors. If you don't have a sparecable, you will have to buy the wires and connectors which can be foundin any good electronics store for about $10. I would suggest properlysoldering/heatshrinking the connections to reduce the possibility ofshorts or bad connections.Next, you need a ribbon cable connection. Again, I had a spare hard diskribbon cable, and I wanted to be careful in case this didn't word so whatI did was purchase a crimp on 50 pin cable connector that gave me anothermale connector in the middle of my spare cable. The part cost $10 again,and is easily attached with any good wood vice. The theory behind using acrimp on connector is that if this doesn't work, my original cable is notdamaged, and I can go back to the original setup.Having done all that, I couldn't be bothered to check the dev notes forpower consumption so I plugged it in and it works like a charm to thisday.In a mac II, everything should work the same. Be careful with the ID's ofthe drive, and ensure that the terminating resistors on both drives areintact. I did not try this without the terminating resistors but itseemed logical that if I am splitting the SCSI chain, that the signalshould be terminated at all the ends.Let me know if you have any more questions.Peter HansenBell Northern Researchpgmoffc@BNR.ca