In article <C50wJJ.J4r@newsflash.concordia.ca> ilyess@ECE.Concordia.CA(Ilyess Bdira) writes:> > 1)why do jews who don't even believe in God (as is the case with many> of the founders of secular zionism) have a right in Palestine more> than the inhabitants of Palestine, just because God gave you the land?G-d has nothing to do with it. Some of the land was in fact given to theJews by the United Nations, quite a bit of it was purchased from Arababsentee landlords. Present claims are based on prior ownership (purchasefrom aforementioned absentee landlords) award by the United Nations in thepartition of the Palestine mandate territory, and as the result ofdefensive wars fought against the Egyptians, Syrians, Jordanians, et al.***> 2)Why do most of them speak of the west bank as theirs while most of> the inhabitants are not Jews and do not want to be part of Israel?First, I should point out that many Jews do not in fact agree with theidea that the West Bank is theirs. Since,  however, I agree with those whoclaim the West Bank, I think I can answer your question thusly: the Westbank was what is called the spoils of war. Hussein ordered the Arab Legionto attack Israel, which was a poor move, seeing as how the Israelispromptly kicked his butt. The territory is therefore forefeit.  Retainingpossession of ALL of the West bank is  not desirable, but it beatsnational suicide for the Israelis. Put another way, one could ask why itis that so many Palestinians seem to think that Tel-Aviv belongs to themand the future state of Palestine. As long as this state of affairscontinues, it seems that to give the Palestinians a place from which theycan launch attacks on Jews is a real poor idea. Giving up the entire WestBank would be idiotic froma security standpoint.  In addition, there isthe small matter of Jerusalem, which is considered to be part of the WestBank. The chances of the Israelis giving up Jerusalem are nil. Evenleftists who think Yasser is a really cool dude, like Yossi Sarid, aren'tgoing to propose giving up Jerusalem. If he did, he'd get run out of townon a rail.chag sameach!jeff