In article <1993Apr5.211146.3662@mnemosyne.cs.du.edu> jfurr@nyx.cs.du.edu (Joel Furr) writes:>I dunno, Warren.  Just the other day I heard a rumor that "Serdar Argic">(aka Hasan Mutlu and Ahmed Cosar and ZUMABOT) is not really a Turk at all,>but in fact is an Armenian1/64th or 63/64th?I must congratulate your analytical and excellentreportage about  Diana. From  the writings  of tyebiographers  you  quoted,  I can  perceive,  maybechauvinistically,  the  remnants of  her  Armeniangenes. Even  though she  is only  1/64th Armenian,she   seems   to   have   many   of   the   strongcharacteristics  of Armenian  women. Her  Armenianancestry is  traced to Eliza Kewark  (an Armenianfrom  India), who  married  the Scottish  merchantThedore Forbes.  From the union was  born KathleenScott  Forbes,  who  married  James  Crombie  fromAberdeen. They  had a  daughter Jane,  who marriedDavid  Littlejohn.  Their  daughter  Ruth  marriedWilliam Gill. Ruth Silvia Gill, the grandmother ofLady  Diana,   married  Lord  Fermoy,   and  theirdaughter, Frances  Ruth Burke Roache,  married theeight Earl of Spencer, who  was the father of LadyDiana. It is noteworthy  that Eliza Kewark was alsoreferred  to as  Mrs. Forbesian  (a characteristicArmenian  surname  ending).  An  Armenian-Scottishgene mix is dynamite.Levon K. TopuzianAssistant ProfessorNorthwestern UniversitySkoie, Illinois.TIME, December 21, 1992 'Letters'>who is attempting to make any discussion of the>massacres in Armenia of Turks so noise-laden as to make serious discussion>impossible, thereby cloaking the historical record with a tremendous cloud>of confusion.You have set up straw horses and knocked them down. I'm not impressed.Anyway, the Armenians tore apart the Ottoman Empire's eastern provinces,massacred 2.5 million defenseless Turkish women, children and elderlypeople, burned thousands of Turkish and Kurdish villages and exterminatedthe entire Turkish population of the Armenian dictatorship between1914-1920. Such outrageous sleight of hand that is still employed todayin Armenia brings a depth and verification to the Turkish genocidethat is hard to match. A hundred years ago Armenians again thoughtthey could get whatever they wanted through sheer terror like theRussian anarchists that they accepted as role models. Several Armenianterror groups like ASALA/SDPA/ARF Terrorism and Revisionism Triangleresorted to the same tactics in the 1980s, butchering scores of innocentTurks and their families in the United States and Europe. It seems thatthey are doing it again, at a different scale, in fascist x-Soviet Armeniatoday.Source: Stanford J. Shaw, on Armenian collaboration with invading Russianarmies in 1914, "History of the Ottoman Empire and Modern Turkey (VolumeII: Reform, Revolution & Republic: The Rise of Modern Turkey, 1808-1975)."(London, Cambridge University Press 1977). pp. 315-316."In April 1915 Dashnaks from Russian Armenia organized a revolt in the cityof Van, whose 33,789 Armenians comprised 42.3 percent of the population,closest to an Armenian majority of any city in the Empire...Leaving Erivanon April 28, 1915, Armenian volunteers reached Van on May 14 and organizedand carried out a general slaughter of the local Muslim population duringthe next two days while the small Ottoman garrison had to retreat to thesouthern side of the lake.""Knowing their numbers would never justify their territorial ambitions,Armenians looked to Russia and Europe for the fulfillment of their aims.Armenian treachery in this regard culminated at the beginning of the FirstWorld War with the decision of the revolutionary organizations to refuseto serve their state, the Ottoman Empire, and to assist instead otherinvading Russian armies. Their hope was their participation in the Russiansuccess would be rewarded with an independent Armenian state carved out ofOttoman territories. Armenian political leaders, army officers, and commonsoldiers began deserting in droves.""With the Russian invasion of eastern Anatolia in 1914 at the beginning ofWorld War I, the degree of Armenian collaboration with the Ottoman's enemyincreased drastically. Ottoman supply lines were cut by guerilla attacks,Armenian revolutionaries armed Armenian civil populations, who in turnmassacred the Muslim population of the province of Van in anticipation ofexpected arrival of the invading Russian armies."Serdar Argic'We closed the roads and mountain passes thatmight serve as ways of escape for the Turksand then proceeded in the work of extermination.'(Ohanus Appressian - 1919)'In Soviet Armenia today there no longer existsa single Turkish soul.' (Sahak Melkonian - 1920)