In article <1993Apr5.091410.4108@massey.ac.nz> CBlack@massey.ac.nz (C.K. Black) writes:>Mr. Furr does it again,Very sensible.>  He says>>>How many Mutlus can dance on the head of a pin?>And lo and behold, he invokes the Mr.666 of the net himself,  our beloved>Serdar,  a program designed to seek out the words TERRX and GHEX in the>same sentence and gets the automated reply....Must you rave so? Fascist x-Soviet Armenian Government engaged indisgusting cowardly massacres of Azeri women and children. I amreally sorry if that fact bothers you.>>Our "Mutlu"? Oboy, this is exciting. First you discuss your literature>>tastes, then your fantasies, and now your choices of entertainment. Have>>you considered just turning on the TV and leaving those of us who aren't>>brain dead to continue to discuss the genocide of 2.5 million Muslim>>people by the x-Soviet Armenian Government?>etc. etc. etc........More ridicule, I take it? Still not addressing the original points made.>Joel,  don't do this to me mate!  I'm only a poor plant scientist, I don't>know how to make 'kill' files.  My 'k' key works overtime as it is just toThen what seems to be the problem? Did you ever read newspaper at all?"PAINFUL SEARCH .."THE GRUESOME extent of February's killings of Azeris by Armeniansin the town  of Hojali is at last emerging  in Azerbaijan - about600 men,  women and  children dead  in the  worst outrage  of thefour-year war over Nagorny Karabakh.The figure  is drawn  from Azeri investigators,  Hojali officialsand casualty lists published in the Baku press. Diplomats and aidworkers say the death toll is in line with their own estimates.The 25  February attack on Hojali  by Armenian forces was  one ofthe last moves  in their four-year campaign to  take full controlof Nagorny Karabakh,  the subject of a new  round of negotiationsin Rome on Monday. The bloodshed was something between a fightingretreat and  a massacre, but  investigators say that most  of thedead were civilians. The awful  number of people killed was firstsuppressed by  the fearful  former Communist government  in Baku.Later  it  was blurred  by  Armenian  denials and  grief-strickenAzerbaijan's wild  and contradictory  allegations of up  to 2,000dead.The State Prosecuter, Aydin Rasulov,  the cheif investigator of a15-man  team  looking  into  what Azerbaijan  calls  the  "HojaliDisaster", said  his figure of 600  people dead was a  minimum onpreliminary  findings.  A similar  estimate  was  given by  ElmanMemmedov, the mayor of Hojali. An  even higher one was printed inthe Baku newspaper  Ordu in May - 479 dead  people named and morethan 200 bodies reported unidentified.  This figure of nearly 700dead is quoted as official by Leila Yunusova, the new spokeswomanof the Azeri Ministry of Defence.FranCois Zen  Ruffinen, head  of delegation of  the InternationalRed Cross  in Baku, said  the Muslim imam  of the nearby  city ofAgdam had reported a figure of  580 bodies received at his mosquefrom  Hojali, most  of  them  civilians. "We  did  not count  thebodies. But  the figure seems  reasonable. It is no  fantasy," MrZen Ruffinen said. "We have some idea since we gave the body bagsand products to wash the dead."Mr  Rasulov endeavours  to give  an unemotional  estimate of  thenumber of  dead in the  massacre. "Don't  get worked up.  It willtake  several months  to  get a  final  figure," the  43-year-oldlawyer said at his small office.Mr Rasulov  knows about these  things. It  took him two  years toreach  a firm  conclusion that  131  people were  killed and  714wounded  when  Soviet  troops  and tanks  crushed  a  nationalistuprising in Baku in January 1990.Those  nationalists, the  Popular  Front, finally  came to  powerthree weeks  ago and  are applying pressure  to find  out exactlywhat  happened when  Hojali, an  Azeri town  which lies  about 70miles from the border with Armenia, fell to the Armenians.Officially, 184 people have so  far been certified as dead, beingthe  number of  people that  could be  medically examined  by therepublic's forensic department. "This  is just a small percentageof the dead," said Rafiq Youssifov, the republic's chief forensicscientist. "They were the only bodies brought to us. Remember thechaos and the fact that we are  Muslims and have to wash and buryour dead within 24 hours."Of these 184 people, 51 were women, and 13 were children under 14years old.  Gunshots killed  151 people,  shrapnel killed  20 andaxes or  blunt instruments  killed 10.  Exposure in  the highlandsnows killed the last three.  Thirty-three people showed signs ofdeliberate mutilation, including ears,  noses, breasts or penisescut off and  eyes gouged out, according  to Professor Youssifov'sreport. Those 184 bodies examined were less than a third of thosebelieved to have been killed, Mr Rasulov said.Files  from  Mr  Rasulov's  investigative  commission  are  stilldisorganised -  lists of 44  Azeri militiamen are dead  here, sixpolicemen there,  and in handwriting  of a mosque  attendant, thenames of  111 corpses brought to  be washed in just  one day. Themost heartbreaking account from  850 witnesses interviewed so farcomes  from Towfiq  Manafov,  an Azeri  investigator  who took  ahelicopter  flight  over  the  escape route  from  Hojali  on  27February."There were too many bodies of  dead and wounded on the ground tocount properly: 470-500  in Hojali, 650-700 people  by the streamand the road and 85-100  visible around Nakhchivanik village," MrManafov  wrote in  a  statement countersigned  by the  helicopterpilot."People waved up  to us for help. We saw  three dead children andone  two-year-old alive  by  one  dead woman.  The  live one  waspulling at her arm for the mother to get up. We tried to land butArmenians started a barrage against  our helicopter and we had toreturn."There  has been  no consolidation  of  the lists  and figures  incirculation because  of the political  upheavals of the  last fewmonths and the  fact that nobody knows exactly who  was in Hojaliat the time - many inhabitants were displaced from other villagestaken over by Armenian forces.THE INDEPENDENT, London, 12/6/'92HEROES WHO FOUGHT ON AMID THE BODIESAREF  SADIKOV sat  quietly  in the  shade of  a  cafe-bar on  theCaspian Sea  esplanade of Baku and  showed a line of  stitches inhis trousers, torn  by an Armenian bullet as he  fled the town ofHojali just over three months ago, writes Hugh Pope."I'm still  wearing the same  clothes, I don't have  any others,"the  51-year-old carpenter  said,  beginning his  account of  theHojali disaster. "I was wounded in five places, but I am lucky tobe alive."Mr Sadikov and  his wife were short of  food, without electricityfor more than a month, and cut off from helicopter flights for 12days. They  sensed the  Armenian noose was tightening  around the2,000 to  3,000 people left in  the straggling Azeri town  on theedge of Karabakh."At about 11pm  a bombardment started such as we  had never heardbefore,  eight  or  nine   kinds  of  weapons,  artillery,  heavymachine-guns, the lot," Mr Sadikov said.Soon neighbours were  pouring down the street  from the directionof  the  attack. Some  huddled  in  shelters but  others  startedfleeing the town,  down a hill, through a stream  and through thesnow into a forest on the other side.To escape, the  townspeople had to reach the Azeri  town of Agdamabout 15  miles away. They  thought they  were going to  make it,until at  about dawn  they reached a  bottleneck between  the twoArmenian villages of Nakhchivanik and Saderak."None of my group was hurt up to then ... Then we were spotted bya  car on  the road,  and the  Armenian outposts  started openingfire," Mr Sadikov said.Azeri militiamen fighting their way  out of Hojali rushed forwardto force  open a  corridor for the  civilians, but  their effortswere mostly  in vain.  Mr Sadikov  said only  10 people  from hisgroup of  80 made it  through, including his wife  and militiamanson.  Seven  of  his  immediate  relations  died,  including  his67-year-old elder brother."I only had time to reach down  and cover his face with his hat,"he said, pulling his own big  flat Turkish cap over his eyes. "Wehave never got any of the bodies back."The first groups were lucky to have the benefit of covering fire.One hero  of the  evacuation, Alif  Hajief, was  shot dead  as hestruggled to change  a magazine while covering  the third group'scrossing, Mr Sadikov said.Another hero,  Elman Memmedov, the  mayor of Hojali, said  he andseveral others  spent the whole day  of 26 February in  the bushyhillside, surrounded by  dead bodies as they tried  to keep threeArmenian armoured personnel carriers at bay.As the  survivors staggered the  last mile into Agdam,  there waslittle comfort  in a town from  which most of the  population wassoon to flee."The night  after we reached  the town  there was a  big Armenianrocket attack. Some people just  kept going," Mr Sadikov said. "Ihad to  get to the  hospital for treatment. I  was in a  bad way.They even found a bullet in my sock."Victims of  war: An  Azeri woman  mourns her  son, killed  in theHojali massacre in February  (left). Nurses struggle in primitiveconditions  (centre)  to  save  a  wounded  man  in  a  makeshiftoperating  theatre set  up  in a  train carriage.  Grief-strickenrelatives in  the town of Agdam  (right) weep over the  coffin ofanother of the massacre victims. Calculating the final death tollhas been  complicated because Muslims  bury their dead  within 24hours.Photographs: Liu Heung / APFrederique Lengaigne / ReuterTHE INDEPENDENT, London, 12/6/'92Serdar Argic'We closed the roads and mountain passes thatmight serve as ways of escape for the Turksand then proceeded in the work of extermination.'(Ohanus Appressian - 1919)'In Soviet Armenia today there no longer existsa single Turkish soul.' (Sahak Melkonian - 1920)