In article <1993Apr4.231353.34562@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu> pv02@ns1.cc.lehigh.edu (PETER VOROBIEFF) writes:><disclaimer: If there is anybody on USENET dumb enough to interpret>this posting as a serious and meaningful one, I want to assure this>entity that it was but a joke>Still yelling at the telephone and the lawn mower? People will thinkyou're just some looney howling in the wires. Now any comment?Source: Documents: Volume I (1919)."Document No: 76," Archive No: 1/2, Cabin No: 109, DrawerNo: 3, File No: 346, Section No: 427(1385), Contents No: 3, 52-53.(To Lt. Colonel Seyfi, General Headquarters, Second Section,Istanbul - Dr. Stephan Eshnanie)'Neues Wiener Tagblatt' - Vienna, 'Pester Lloyd' 'Local Anzliger' - Berlin,'Algemeen Handelsblat' - Amsterdam, 'Vakit' - Istanbul."I have been closely following for two weeks the withdrawal of Russians andArmenians from Turkish territories through Armenia. Although two monthshave elapsed since the clearing of the territories of Armenian gangs, Ihave been observing the evidence of the cruelties of the Armenians atalmost every step. All the villages from Trabzon to Erzincan and fromErzincan to Erzurum are destroyed. Corpses of Turks brutally and cruellyslain are everywhere. According to accounts by those who were able tosave their lives by escaping to mountains, the first horrible and fearfulevents begun when the Russian forces evacuated the places which were thentaken over by Armenian gangs. The Russians usually treated the peoplewell, but the people feared the intervention of the Armenians. Once theseplaces had been taken over by the Armenians, however, the massacres begun.They clearly announced their intention of clearing what they called theArmenian and Kurdish land from the Turks and thus, solve the nationalityproblem. Today I had the opportunity to meet Austrian and German soldierswho had escaped from Russian prison camps and come from Kars andAlexander Paul (Gumru-Leninakan)...Russian officers tried to save theTurks and there were clashes between Russian officers and Armenian gangs.I am now in Erzurum, and what I see is terrible. Almost the whole city isdestroyed. The smell of the corpses still fills the air. Although there arespeculations that Armenian gangs murdered Austrian and German prisoners aswell, I could not get the supporting evidence in this regard, but there isproof of murdering of Turkish prisoners of war."Dr. Stephan EshnanieSerdar Argic'We closed the roads and mountain passes thatmight serve as ways of escape for the Turksand then proceeded in the work of extermination.'(Ohanus Appressian - 1919)'In Soviet Armenia today there no longer existsa single Turkish soul.' (Sahak Melkonian - 1920)