In article <iacovou.734063606@gurney> iacovou@gurney.cs.umn.edu (Neophytos Iacovou) writes:>>>   Historically even the most uncivilized of peoples have exhibited>>>   signs of compassion by allowing humanitarian aid to reach civilian>>>   populations. Even the Nazis did this much.>>is the world community really so powerless? Where are all those human>>rights advocates? Where are all the decent people? Are we going to>>let this human tragedy go on and do nothing about it? The number>>of Azeris murdered by the terrorist Armenian army and its savage>>gangs is increasing.>   News reporters make their living by providing stories, and there is>   so way in hell that they are going to confuse the public with>   what is happening in Armenia (a country that few know of), and>   risk detracting people's interest from what is happening in Serbia.Then you must be living in an alternate universe. Where were they?An Appeal to MankindDuring the last three years Azerbaijan and its multinationalpopulation are vainly fighting for justice within the limits ofthe Soviet Union. All humanitarian, constitutional human rightsguaranteed by the UN Charter, Universal Declaration of HumanRights, Helsinki Agreements, Human Problems International Forums,documents signed by the Soviet Union - all of them are violated.The USSR's President, government bodies do not defend Azerbaijanthough they are all empowered to take necessary measures toguarantee life and peace.The 140,000 strong army of Armenian terrorists with Moscow'stacit consent wages an undeclared war of annihilation againstAzerbaijan. As a result, a part of Azerbaijan has been occupiedand annexed, hundreds of people killed, thousands wounded.Some 200,000 Azerbaijanis have been brutally and inhumanlydeported from the Armenian SSR, their historical homeland.Together with them 64,000 Russians and 22,000 Kurds have alsobeen driven out, a part of them now settled in Azerbaijan.Some 40,000 Turkish-Meskhetians, Lezghins and representativesof other Caucasian nationalities who escaped from the CentralAsia where the President and government bodies did not guaranteethem the life and peace also suffered from these deportations.One of the scandalous vandalisms directed not only againstAzerbaijan science but the world civilization as well is theArmenian extremists' destruction of the Karabakh scientificexperimental base of The Institute of Genetics and Selectionof the Academy of Sciences of the Azerbaijan SSR.We beg you for humanitarian help and political assistance,for the honour and dignity of 7 million Azerbaijanis areviolated, its territory, culture  and history are trampled,its people are shot. There is persistent negative image ofAzerbaijanians abroad, and this defamation is spread overthe whole world by Soviet mass media, Armenian lobby in theUSSR and the United States.One of the myths is that all events allegedly involves andgenerated by interethnic collisions and religious intolerancewhile the truth is that all these shootings and recentevents stem from the territorial claims of Armenia onAzerbaijan.It is a well documented fact that before the conflict therewere no frictions between Armenians and Azerbaijanis on theissue of Karabakh. Hundreds and thousands Armenians placidlyand calmly lived and worked in Azerbaijan land, had theirrepresentatives in all government bodies of the AzerbaijanSSR.We are for a united, indivisible, sovereign Azerbaijan, weare for a common Caucasian home proclaimed in 1918 by oneof the founding fathers of the Azerbaijan DemocraticRepublic - Muhammed Emin Rasulzade.But all these goals and expectations are trampled upon theSoviet leadership in favour of the Armenian expansionistsencouraged by Moscow and intended to create a new '1,000Year Reich' - the 'Great Armenia' - by annexing theneighboring lands.The world public opinion shed tears to save the whales,suffers for penguins dying out in the Antarctic Continent.But what about the lives of seven million human beings?If these people are Muslims, does it mean that they areless valuable? Can people be discriminated by theircolour of skin or religion, by their residence or otherattributes?All people are brothers, and we appeal to our brothersfor help and understanding. This is not the first appealof Azerbaijan to the world public opinion. Our previousappeals were unheard. However, we still carry the hopethat the truth beyond the Russian and Armenian propagandawill one day reveal the extent of our suffering andstimulate at least as much help and compassion forAzerbaijan as tendered to whales and penguins.THE COMMITTEE FOR PEOPLE'S HELP TOKARABAKH (OF THE) ACADEMY OF SCIENCESOF THE AZERBAIJAN SSR>   Everyone knows this, even the Turks know this, you know this. Give>   us a time period when the world is currently boring, and what is>   happening in Armenia would make front page headlines. Think I'm lying?>   Take a look at what happened in Somalia. When did the press report>   it to the world?But perhaps Turkiye should intervene in the affairs of the Caucasusin the name of peace and democracy. The Armenians are Christians, theAzerbaijanis are Moslems, and Islam is a religion especially unlovedby the democrat-westernizers. Besides, at the root of this conflictlie the territorial claims on Azerbaijan, a consequence of whichwere the blood and suffering of innocent Azeri people, hundreds ofthousands of refugees, and gross violations of human rights.Recently Armenians attacked the Azeri town of Khojaly and massacredthousands of Azeris. The Paris-based 'Association for Democracy andHuman Rights in Azerbaijan' puts the number of Khojali victimsat 3,145. Some of the dead were scalped and mutilated. This wholething has now gone entirely too far.>   Want to know what will bring the story in Armenia to the front>   page? If the Russians move into the area with a shit load of tanks>   THEN your human rights advocates will show up defending the Armenians.>   Of course we can also be sure that the Russians won't show up with>   any tanks, not with the problems they are having at home.They already did. The scenario and genocide staged by the Armenians78 years ago in the Ottoman Empire is being reenacted again - thistime in Azerbaijan. There are remarkable similarities between theplots, the perpetrators, and the underdogs.Report taken from The New York Times, Tuesday, March 3, 1992MASSACRE BY ARMENIANS BEING REPORTEDAgdam,Azerbaijan,March 2 (Reuters) - Fresh evidence emerged todayof a massacre of civilians by Armenian militants in Nagorno-Karabakh,a predominantly Armenian enclave of Azerbaijan.The republic of Armenia reiterated denials that its militants had killed1,000 people in the Azerbaijani populated town of Khojaly last week andmassacred men, women and children fleeing the carnage across snow-coveredmountain passes.But dozen of bodies scattered over the area lent credence to Azerbaijanireports of a massacre.Scalping ReportedAzerbaijani officials and journalists who flew briefly to the regionby helicopter brought back three dead children with the back of theirheads blown off. They said shooting by Armenians has prevented themfrom retrieving more bodies."Women and children have been scalped," said Assad Faradshev, an aideto Nagorno-Karabakh's Azerbaijani Governor. "When we began to pick up bodies,they began firing at us."The Azerbaijani militia chief in Agdam, Rashid Mamedov, said: "The bodiesare lying there like flocks of sheep. Even the fascists did nothing like this."Truckloads of BodiesNear Agdam on the outskirts of Nagorno-Karabakh, a Reuters photographer,Frederique Lengaigne, said she had seen two trucks filled with Azerbaijanibodies."In the first one I counted 35, and it looked as though there were asmany in the second," she said. "Some had their head cut off, and many hadbeen burned. They were all men, and a few had been wearing khaki uniforms.Serdar Argic'We closed the roads and mountain passes thatmight serve as ways of escape for the Turksand then proceeded in the work of extermination.'(Ohanus Appressian - 1919)'In Soviet Armenia today there no longer existsa single Turkish soul.' (Sahak Melkonian - 1920)